How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021
https://www.worksafe.qld.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0022/72634/how-to-manage-work-health-and-safety-risks-cop-2021.pdf

How to manage work health
and safety risks
Code of Practice
2021
© The State of Queensland (Office of Industrial Relations) 2026.
Published by the Queensland Government, September 2026, 1 William St, Brisbane Qld, 4000.
The Queensland Government supports and encourages the dissemination and exchange of information. However, copyright protects this
document. The State of Queensland has no objection to this material being reproduced, made available online or electronically but only if it is
recognised as the owner of the copyright and this material remains unaltered. Copyright enquiries about this publication should be directed to
the Office of Industrial Relations by email to safe@oir.qld.gov.au.




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                                                               Page 2 of 33
Contents
Foreword.............................................................................................................. 4

1.        Introduction ................................................................................................ 5
1.1.      Who has duties for managing work health and safety risks?......................................................................... 5
1.2.      What is involved in managing risks?................................................................................................................. 6
1.3.      When should a risk management approach be used? ................................................................................... 9


2.        Step 1—How to identify hazards ............................................................. 11
2.1.      How to find hazards .......................................................................................................................................... 12


3.        Step 2—How to assess risks ................................................................... 14
3.1.      When should a risk assessment be carried out? .......................................................................................... 14
3.2.      How to do a risk assessment........................................................................................................................... 15


4.        Step 3—How to control risks ................................................................... 18
4.1.      The hierarchy of control measures ................................................................................................................. 18
4.2.      How to develop and implement control options............................................................................................. 20
4.3.      How to ensure controls remain effective ........................................................................................................ 22


5.        Step 4—How to review controls .............................................................. 23

6.        Keeping records ....................................................................................... 24

Appendix A—Glossary........................................................................................ 25

Appendix B—Examples of the risk management process ................................. 27

Appendix C—Assessing how things can go wrong ............................................ 32

Appendix D—Risk register.................................................................................. 33




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                                                             Page 3 of 33
Foreword
This Code of Practice on how to manage work health and safety risks is an approved code of practice under
section 274 of the Work Health and Safety Act (the WHS Act).
An approved code of practice is a practical guide to achieving the standards of health, safety and welfare
required under the WHS Act and the Work Health and Safety Regulation 2011 (WHS Regulation).
Under section 26A of the WHS Act duty holders must comply with an approved code of practice or follow another
method, such as a technical or industry standard, if it provides an equivalent or higher standard of work health
and safety than the standard required in this Code.
A code of practice applies to anyone who has a duty of care in the circumstances described in the code. In most
cases, following an approved code of practice would achieve compliance with the health and safety duties in the
WHS Act, in relation to the subject matter of the code. Like regulations, codes of practice deal with particular
issues and do not cover all hazards or risks that may arise. The health and safety duties require duty holders to
consider all risks associated with work, not only those for which regulations and codes of practice exist.
Codes of practice are admissible in court proceedings under the WHS Act and WHS Regulation. Courts may
regard a code of practice as evidence of what is known about a hazard, risk or control and may rely on the code
in determining what is reasonably practicable in the circumstances to which the code relates.
An inspector may refer to an approved code of practice when issuing an improvement or prohibition notice. This
may include issuing an improvement notice for failure to comply with a code of practice where equivalent or
higher standards of work health and safety have not been demonstrated.
Scope and application
This code is intended to be read by a person conducting a business or undertaking (PCBU). It provides practical
guidance to PCBUs on how to manage risks to health and safety. Other approved codes of practice should be
referenced for guidance on managing the risk of specific hazards.
This code may be a useful reference for other persons interested in the duties under the WHS Act and the WHS
Regulation.
This code applies to all types of work and all workplaces covered by the WHS Act.
How to use this Code of Practice
This code includes various references to the legal requirements under the WHS Act and the WHS Regulation.
These are included for convenience only and should not be relied on in the place of the full text of the WHS Act
or the WHS Regulation. The words ‘must’, ‘requires’ or ‘mandatory’ indicate a legal requirement exists that must
be complied with.
The word ‘should’ is used in this code to indicate a recommended course of action, while ‘may’ is used to
indicate an optional course of action.




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                    Page 4 of 33
1. Introduction
1.1. Who has duties for managing work health and
     safety risks?
Duty holders who have a role in managing work health and safety risks include:
•   persons conducting a business or undertaking (PCBUs)
•   officers, and
•   designers, manufacturers, importers, suppliers and installers of plant, substances or structures.
Workers and other persons at the workplace also have duties under the WHS Act, such as the duty to take
reasonable care for their own health and safety at the workplace.
A person can have more than one duty and more than one person can have the same duty at the same time.

Person conducting a business or undertaking (PCBU)

WHS Act section 19

Primary duty of care


A PCBU must eliminate risks in the workplace, or if that is not reasonably practicable, minimise the risks so far
as is reasonably practicable.
The WHS Regulation includes more specific requirements for PCBUs to manage the risks of psychosocial
hazards, hazardous chemicals, airborne contaminants and plant, as well as other hazards associated with the
workplace.
PCBUs have a duty to consult workers about work health and safety and may also have duties to consult,
cooperate and coordinate with other duty holders.
Examples of where a PCBU will have a health and safety duty include when:
•   the PCBU engages workers to carry out work
•   the PCBU directs or influences workers in carrying out work
•   other people may be put at risk from work carried in their business or undertaking
•   the PCBU manages or controls a workplace or fixtures, fittings or plant at the workplace.

Officers

WHS Act section 27

Duty of officers


Officers, such as company directors, have a duty to exercise due diligence to ensure the PCBU complies with
the WHS Act and the WHS Regulation. This includes taking reasonable steps to gain an understanding of the
hazards and risks associated with the operations of the business or undertaking, and ensure the business or
undertaking has and uses appropriate resources and processes to eliminate or minimise risks to health and
safety.




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                                        Page 5 of 33
Designers, manufacturers, importers and suppliers of plant, substances or structures

WHS Act Part 2 Division 3

Further duties of persons conducting businesses or undertakings


Designers, manufacturers, importers and suppliers of plant, substances or structures must ensure, so far as is
reasonably practicable, the plant, substance or structure they design, manufacture, import or supply is without
risks to health and safety. This duty includes carrying out testing and analysis as well as providing specific
information about the plant, substance or structure.
The WHS Regulation includes a number of specific requirements for consultation and information sharing to
assist in meeting these duties, for example:
•   manufacturers to consult with designers of plant
•   importers to consult with designers and manufacturers of plant
•   the person who commissions construction work to consult with the designer of the structure.

Workers

WHS Act section 28

Duties of workers


Workers have a duty to take reasonable care for their own health and safety and to not adversely affect the
health and safety of other persons. Workers must comply with reasonable instructions, so far as they are
reasonably able, and cooperate with reasonable health and safety policies or procedures that have been notified
to workers.
If personal protective equipment (PPE) is provided by the business or undertaking, the worker must so far as
they are reasonably able, use or wear it in accordance with the information and instruction and training provided.

Other persons at the workplace

WHS Act section 29

Duties of other persons at the workplace


Other persons at the workplace, like visitors, must take reasonable care for their own health and safety and must
take reasonable care not to adversely affect other people’s health and safety. They must comply, so far as they
are reasonably able, with reasonable instructions given by the PCBU to allow the PCBU to comply with the WHS
Act.


1.2. What is involved in managing risks?
Management commitment

Effective risk management, for both physical and psychosocial risks, starts with a commitment to health and
safety from those who operate and manage the business or undertaking. You also need the involvement and
cooperation of your workers, supply chain partners, and other businesses you work with. Management
commitment is about demonstrating you are serious about health and safety and influencing other duty holders
in the workplace.




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                    Page 6 of 33
To demonstrate your commitment, you should:
•   get involved in health and safety issues so that you understand the hazards and risk associated with your
    operations
•   consult workers and other duty holders on the hazards and risk, and how to control them
•   invest time and money in health and safety
•   ensure you and your workers clearly understand health and safety responsibilities and have the knowledge
    and skill to do tasks safely
•   apply health and safety values and behaviours to your own work practices.

A step-by-step process

A safe and healthy workplace does not happen by chance or guesswork. You have to think about what could go
wrong at your workplace and what the consequences could be. Then you must do whatever you can (in other
words, whatever is ‘reasonably practicable’) to eliminate or minimise health and safety risks arising from your
business or undertaking.
This process is known as risk management and involves the four steps set out in this code (see Figure 1 below):
•   Identify hazards—find out what could cause harm.
•   Assess risks, if necessary—understand the nature of the harm that could be caused by the hazard, how
    serious the harm could be and the likelihood of it happening. This step may not be necessary if you are
    dealing with a known risk with known controls.
•   Control risks—implement the most effective control measure that is reasonably practicable in the
    circumstances and ensure it remains effective over time.
•   Review hazards and control measures to ensure they are working as planned.
This process will be implemented in different ways depending on the size and nature of your business or
undertaking. Larger businesses and those in sectors where workers are exposed to more or higher risks are
likely to need more complex, sophisticated risk management processes.
Examples demonstrating how to manage work health and safety risks in consultation with workers are at
Appendix B.

Good work design

At the earliest stage of planning and designing work, there is the greatest chance of finding ways to design out
hazards (both physical and psychosocial) and incorporate effective safety features to manage risks.
‘Good work design’ considers the work (e.g. how work is performed, the work tasks and context, and systems of
work), working environment (e.g. the physical workplace and plant, equipment, materials and substances used)
and workers (e.g. workers’ capabilities, needs, skills and training). It can be used to set up the workplace and its
layout, the working environment, work tasks and workforce to protect the health and safety of workers. People
who can provide advice on the design of work to help manage risks may include engineers, architects,
ergonomists, IT professionals, occupational hygienists and organisational psychologists.
For more information on good work design, see Principles of good work design: A work health and safety
handbook.
For information on the safe design of plant and structures, see Guidance material for the safe design,
manufacture, import and supply of plant and the Safe design of structures Code of Practice.

Determining what is ‘reasonably practicable’

Deciding what is ‘reasonably practicable’ to protect people from harm requires taking into account and weighing
up all relevant matters, including:
•   the likelihood of the hazard or risk concerned occurring
•   the degree of harm that might result from the hazard or risk
•   knowledge about the hazard or risk, and ways of eliminating or minimising the risk



How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                      Page 7 of 33
•   the availability and suitability of ways to eliminate or minimise the risk
•   after assessing the extent of the risk and the available ways of eliminating or minimising the risk, the cost
    associated with available ways of eliminating or minimising the risk, including whether the cost is grossly
    disproportionate to the risk.
The process of managing risk described in this code will help you decide what is reasonably practicable in
particular situations so that you can meet your duty of care under the WHS laws.




                                    Figure 1 – The risk management process


Many hazards and their associated risks are well known and have well established and accepted control
measures. In these situations, the second step to formally assess the risk is unnecessary. If, after identifying a
hazard, you already know the risk and how to control it effectively, you can implement the controls without
undertaking a risk assessment.
Risk management is a proactive process that helps you respond to change and facilitate continuous
improvement in your business. It should be planned, systematic and cover all reasonably foreseeable hazards
and associated risks.

Consulting workers

WHS Act section 47

Duty to consult workers

WHS Act section 48

Nature of consultation


A PCBU must consult, so far as is reasonably practicable, with workers who carry out work for the business or
undertaking and who are (or are likely to be) directly affected by a health and safety matter.
This duty to consult is based on the recognition that worker input and participation improves decision-making
about health and safety matters and assists in reducing work-related injuries and disease.



How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                      Page 8 of 33
The broad definition of a ‘worker’ under the WHS Act means a PCBU must consult, so far as is reasonably
practicable, with contractors and sub-contractors and their employees, on-hire workers, outworkers, apprentices,
trainees, work experience students, volunteers and other people who are working for the PCBU and who are, or
are likely to be, directly affected by a health and safety matter.
If you and your workers have agreed procedures for consultation, consultation must be conducted in accordance
with those procedures.
Workers are entitled to take part in consultations and to be represented in consultations by a health and safety
representative who has been elected to represent their work group.
Consultation with workers and their health and safety representatives is required at each step of the risk
management process.
By drawing on the experience, knowledge and ideas of your workers you are more likely to identify all hazards
and choose effective control measures.
You should encourage your workers to report any hazards and health and safety problems immediately so that
risks can be managed before an incident occurs.
If you have a health and safety committee, you should engage the committee in the risk management process as
well.

Consulting, cooperating and coordinating activities with other duty holders

WHS Act section 46

Duty to consult with other duty holders


The WHS Act requires that a PCBU to consult, cooperate and coordinate activities with all other persons who
have a work health or safety duty in relation to the same matter, so far as is reasonably practicable.
There is often more than one business or undertaking involved in the same activities or who share the same
workplace who may each have responsibility for the same health and safety matters, either because they are
involved in the same activities or share the same workplace.
In these situations, each duty holder should exchange information to find out who is doing what and work
together in a cooperative and coordinated way so risks are eliminated or minimised, so far as is reasonably
practicable.
For example, if you engage labour hire workers as part of your workforce you share a duty of care to these
workers with the business that provides them. In these situations, you must discuss the hazards and risks
associated with the work and what precautions will be taken with the labour hire firm.
Never assume that someone else is taking care of a health and safety matter. Find out who is doing what and
work together with other duty holders in a cooperative and coordinated way so risks are eliminated or minimised
as far as reasonably practicable.
When entering into contracts you should communicate your safety requirements and policies, review the job to
be undertaken, discuss any safety issues that may arise and how they will be dealt with. Remember that you
cannot transfer your responsibilities to another person.
Further guidance on work health and safety (WHS) consultation is available in the:
Work health and safety consultation, cooperation and coordination Code of Practice.


1.3. When should a risk management approach be
     used?
Managing work health and safety risks is an ongoing process that needs attention over time, but particularly
when any changes affect your work activities. Examples of when you should work through the steps in this code
include:




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                     Page 9 of 33
•   when designing and planning products, processes or places used for work
•   starting a new business
•   expanding or purchasing an existing business
•   changing work practices, procedures or the work environment including after implementing control measures
    to manage physical and psychosocial risks
•   changing organisational structure or job roles
•   introducing new workers or returning workers to the workplace
•   purchasing new or used equipment or using new substances
•   working with a new supplier or new commissioner of your services
•   planning to improve productivity or reduce costs
•   new information about workplace risks becomes available
•   responding to workplace incidents (even if they have not caused injury or illness)
•   responding to concerns, issues, reports or complaints raised by workers, health and safety representatives
    or others at the workplace, or
•   when required by the WHS Regulation for specific hazards.
The risk management process outlined in this Code should be applied to both physical and psychosocial risks.
Further guidance is available in the Managing the risk of psychosocial hazards at work Code of Practice.




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                    Page 10 of 33
2. Step 1—How to identify hazards
Identifying hazards in the workplace involves finding things and situations that could potentially cause harm to
people. Harm can be physical, psychological or both.
Hazards generally arise from the following aspects of work and their interaction:
•     physical work environment
•     equipment, materials and substances used
•     work tasks and how they are performed
•     work design and management, and
•     workplace interactions or behaviours.
Table 1 below lists some common types of workplace hazards. Some hazards are part of the work process, such
as mechanical hazards, high job demands, noise or toxic properties of substances. Other hazards result from
equipment or machine failures and misuse, chemical spills and structural failures.
A piece of plant, substance or a work process may have many different hazards. Each of these hazards needs to
be identified. For example, a production line may have dangerous moving parts, noise, hazards associated with
manual tasks and psychosocial hazards due to the pace of work and threat of injury.

    Example           Example                                   Examples of potential harm
    hazard
    Manual tasks      Tasks involving sustained or              Musculoskeletal disorders such as damage to
                      awkward postures, high or sudden          joints, ligaments and muscles
                      force, repetitive movements or
                      vibration
    Gravity           Falling objects, falls, slips and trips   Fractures, bruises, lacerations, dislocations,
                      of people                                 concussion, permanent injuries or death
    Psychosocial      High job demands, poor support,           Psychological harm may include conditions such
                      harmful behaviours (e.g. bullying,        as anxiety, depression, post-traumatic stress
                      harassment including sexual               disorders or sleep disorders. Physical harm such
                      harassment, or violence and               as chronic disease or fatigue related injuries
                      aggression), exposure to traumatic
                      events or material
    Electricity       Exposure to live electrical wires         Shock, burns, damage to organs and nerves
                                                                leading to permanent injuries or death
    Machinery and     Being hit by moving vehicles, or          Fractures, bruises, lacerations, dislocations,
    equipment         being caught in moving parts of           permanent injuries or death
                      machinery
    Hazardous         Acids, hydrocarbons, heavy metals,        Respiratory illnesses, cancers or dermatitis
    chemicals         asbestos and silica
    Extreme           Heat and cold                             Heat can cause burns and heat stroke or injuries
    temperatures                                                due to fatigue
                                                                Cold can cause hypothermia or frost bite
    Noise             Exposure to loud noise                    Permanent hearing damage
    Radiation         Ultraviolet, welding arc flashes,         Burns, cancer or blindness
                      micro waves and lasers
    Biological        Micro-organisms                           Hepatitis, legionnaires’ disease, Q fever, HIV/AIDS
                                                                or allergies
                         Table 1 – Examples of common hazards and potential harms




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                        Page 11 of 33
2.1. How to find hazards
Inspect the workplace

As a PCBU regularly inspecting the workplace and observing how things are done can help you identify what
could or might go wrong. Inspecting the workplace may involve a combination of methods, for example,
physically walking around the workplace or observing the online working environment.
Things to look out for include the following:
•   Does the work environment enable workers to carry out work without risks to health and safety (for example,
    space for unobstructed movement, adequate ventilation, lighting)?
•   How is work performed, including the physical, mental and emotional demands of the tasks and activities?
•   How suitable are the tools and equipment for the task and how well are they maintained?
•   How people interact with each other (e.g. are workers, customers and clients respectful, or are harmful
    behaviours present)?Have any changes occurred in the workplace which may affect health and safety (for
    example, relocating to a different worksite or staff moving to hybrid work such as working from home)?
•   What hazards may be brought into the workplace with new, used or hired goods (for example, work
    insulation on a hired welding set)?
Hazards are not always obvious. While some may be constantly present, others can arise sporadically (for
example, high job demands and poor support during peak periods) or can affect health over a long period of
time. Workers are likely to be exposed to a combination of hazards. Some may cause serious harm by
themselves but often it is a combination of hazards which cause harm.
You may spot straightforward problems and action should be taken on these immediately, for example cleaning
up a spill. If you find a situation where there is immediate or significant danger to people, move those persons to
a safer location first and attend to the hazard urgently. Follow up on why the situation occurred to identify
additional hazards and risks.
Make a list of the hazards you find, including the ones you know are already being dealt with, to ensure that
nothing is missed. This list can be kept and updated next time you do an inspection. You may use a checklist
designed to suit your workplace to help you find and make a note of hazards.

Consult your workers

Consult your workers and their health and safety representatives about any health and safety concerns or
problems they have encountered in doing their work, and any near misses or incidents that have not been
reported.
Make sure your consultation arrangements are appropriate for identifying all types of hazards. For example,
workers may be hesitant to raise and discuss psychosocial hazards (e.g. bullying or sexual or racial harassment)
due to privacy or other concerns. You may need to provide anonymous and confidential ways for workers to
raise concerns, such as anonymous surveys or reporting systems.

Consult your supply chains and networks

Talk with your suppliers or those commissioning your services to understand each other’s needs and identify any
hazards and risks. For example, hazards may arise from frequent pressure to deliver services in very tight
timeframes or from a lack of role clarity (e.g. confusion about who is doing what work). Other hazards may
relate to packaging products in ways that increase workers’ risks of musculoskeletal injury or exposure to
hazardous chemicals.
When people within a supply chain act cooperatively they can exert greater influence on health and safety than
when acting alone.

Review available information

Information and advice about hazards and risks relevant to particular industries and types of work is available
from regulators, industry associations, unions, technical specialists and safety consultants.



How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                     Page 12 of 33
Manufacturers and suppliers can also provide information about hazards and safety precautions for specific
substances (safety data sheets), plant or processes (instruction manuals).
Analyse your records of health monitoring, workplace incidents, workers’ compensation, near misses, worker
complaints, sick leave, turnover, and the results of any inspections and investigations including those to identify
hazards. If someone has been harmed doing a particular task, then a hazard exists that could hurt someone
else. These incidents need to be investigated to find the hazard that caused the injury or illness.




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                      Page 13 of 33
3. Step 2 — How to assess risks
A risk assessment involves considering what could happen if someone is exposed to a hazard and the likelihood
of it happening. A risk assessment can help you, as a PCBU, to determine:
•   how severe a risk is
•   whether any existing control measures are effective
•   what action you should take to control the risk, and
•   how urgently the action needs to be taken.
Many hazards and their associated risks are well known and have well established and accepted control
measures. In these situations, the second step to formally assess the risk is not required. If after identifying a
hazard you already know the risk and how to control it effectively, you may simply implement the controls.
A risk assessment can be undertaken with varying degrees of detail depending on the type of hazard and the
information, data and resources that you have available. It can be as simple as a discussion with your workers or
involve specific risk analysis tools and techniques developed for specific risks or recommended by safety
professionals. For some complex situations, expert or specialist advice may be useful when conducting a risk
assessment.


3.1. When should a risk assessment be carried out?
A risk assessment should be done when:
•   there is uncertainty about how a hazard may result in injury or illness
•   the work activity involves a number of different hazards and there is a lack of understanding about how the
    hazards may interact with each other to produce new or greater risks
•   changes at the workplace occur that may impact on the effectiveness of control measures.
In some circumstances, a risk assessment will assist to:
•   identify which workers are at risk of exposure
•   determine what sources and processes are causing the risk, or
•   identify if and what kind of control measures should be implemented
•   check the effectiveness of existing control measures.
A risk assessment is mandatory under the WHS Regulation for certain activities that are high risk such as, but
not limited to, entry into confined spaces, diving work and live electrical work.
Some hazards that have exposure standards, such as noise and airborne contaminants, may require scientific
testing or measurement by a competent person to accurately assess the risk and to check that the relevant
exposure standard is not being exceeded (for example, by using noise meters to measure noise levels and using
gas detectors to analyse oxygen levels in confined spaces).
A risk assessment is not required when legislation requires a hazard or risk to be controlled in a specific way—
these requirements must be complied with.
A detailed risk assessment may not be required in the following situations:
•   A code of practice or other guidance sets out a way of controlling a hazard or risk that is applicable to your
    situation.
•   There are well-known and effective controls that are in use in the particular industry that are suited to the
    circumstances in your workplace.
In these situations, you may be able to simply implement these control measures.
A risk assessment may be appropriate to reuse in situations where all the hazards, tasks, things, workers or
circumstances are the same and no worker or other person will be exposed to greater, additional or different
risks. However, as stated above, if there are any changes at the workplace, a new risk assessment should be
performed.




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                       Page 14 of 33
3.2. How to do a risk assessment
Hazards have the potential to cause different types and severities of harm ranging from minor discomfort to a
serious injury or death.
For example, heavy liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders can cause muscular strain when they are handled
manually. However, if the cylinder is damaged causing gas to leak, which is then ignited, a fire could result in
serious burns. If that leak occurs in a storeroom or similar enclosed space, it could result in an explosion that
could destroy the building and kill or injure anyone nearby. Each of the outcomes involves a different type of
harm with a range of severities, and each has a different likelihood of occurrence.
The risk will increase as the severity and likelihood of harm increases.

Work out how hazards may cause harm

In most cases, incidents occur as a result of a chain of events and a failure of one or more links in that chain. If
one or more of the events can be stopped or changed, the risk may be eliminated or reduced.
One way of working out the chain of events is to determine the starting point where things begin to go wrong and
then consider: ‘If this happens, what may happen next?’ This will provide a list of events that sooner or later
cause harm. See the example in Appendix C.
In thinking about how each hazard may cause harm, you should consider:
•   the effectiveness of existing control measures and whether they control all types of harm
•   how work is actually done, rather than relying on written manuals and procedures, and
•   infrequent or abnormal situations, as well as how things are normally meant to occur.
Consider how harm could be caused during maintenance and cleaning, as well as breakdowns of equipment and
failures of health and safety controls.

Work out how severe the harm could be

To estimate the severity of harm that could result from each hazard you should consider the following questions:
•   What type of harm could occur (for example muscular strain, injuries due to fatigue, psychological harm,
    burns, laceration)? How severe is the harm? Could the hazard cause death, serious injuries, illness or only
    minor injuries requiring first aid?
•   What factors could influence the severity of harm that occurs? For example, the distance someone might fall
    or the concentration of a particular substance will determine the level of harm that is possible. The harm may
    occur immediately if something goes wrong (for example injury from a fall) or it may take time for it to
    become apparent (for example illness from long-term exposure to a substance or to high job demands).
•   What is the duration, frequency and severity of exposure to hazards? Risks increase when exposure to
    hazards is longer in duration, happens more often or is more severe.
•   Do you need to use specific tools or processes to assess how severe the harm could be? This could include
    sending samples to a lab for testing or arranging noise exposure level testing.
•   How many people are exposed to the hazard and how many could be harmed in and outside your
    workplace? For example, a mobile crane collapse on a busy construction site has the potential to kill or
    injure a large number of people.
•   How could hazards interact and combine to create new, changed or higher risks? For example, the risk of
    harmful behaviours, such as bullying and harassment, may increase when workers experience high job
    demands, poor support or poor organisational justice.
•   Could one failure lead to other failures? For example, could the failure of your electrical supply make any
    control measures that rely on electricity ineffective?
•   Could a small event escalate to a much larger event with more serious consequences? For example, a
    minor fire can get out of control quickly in the presence of large amounts of combustible materials.




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                       Page 15 of 33
 Work out the likelihood of harm occurring

 The likelihood that someone will be harmed can be estimated by considering the following:
 •   How often is the task done? Does this make the harm more or less likely?
 •   How often are people near the hazard? How close do people get to it?
 •   Has it ever happened before, either in your workplace or somewhere else? How often?
 Table 2 contains further questions that can help you estimate likelihood.
 You can rate the likelihood as one of the following:
 •   Certain to occur—expected to occur in most circumstances.
 •   Very likely—will probably occur in most circumstances.
 •   Possible—might occur occasionally.
 •   Unlikely—could happen at some time.
 •   Rare—may happen only in exceptional circumstances.


Questions                           Explanation and examples
How often are people exposed        A hazard may exist all of the time or it may only exist occasionally. The more
to the hazard?                      often a hazard is present, the greater the likelihood it will result in harm.
                                    For example:
                                    •   Meshing gears in an enclosed gearbox can cause crushing only if the
                                        gearbox is open during maintenance, and therefore the potential for harm
                                        will not occur very often.
                                    •   Continuously lifting heavy boxes has the potential to cause harm whenever
                                        the work is done.
How long might people be            The longer that someone is exposed to a hazard, the greater the likelihood that
exposed to the hazard?              harm may result.
                                    For example:
                                    •   The longer a person is exposed to noisy work, the more likely it is that they
                                        will suffer hearing loss.
                                    •   Workers who have prolonged high job demands and low support are more
                                        likely to experience psychological harm than workers with temporary peaks
                                        in workload.
How effective are current           In most cases the risks being assessed will already be subject to some control
controls in reducing risk?          measures. The likelihood of harm resulting from the risk will depend upon how
                                    adequate and effective the current measures are.
                                    For example:
                                    •   Traffic management controls have been implemented in a warehouse to
                                        separate moving forklifts from pedestrians by using signs and painted lines
                                        on the floor. These controls may need to be upgraded to include physical
                                        barriers.
Could any changes in your           The demand for goods or services in many organisations varies throughout the
organisation increase the           year. Changes in demand may be seasonal, depend on environmental
likelihood?                         conditions or be affected by market fluctuations that are driven by a range of
                                    events. Meeting increased job demands may cause unusual loads on people,
                                    plant and equipment and systems of work. Failures may be more likely.
                                    For example:
                                    •   Inner city restaurants and bistros are very busy in the period prior to
                                        Christmas, placing extra demands on kitchen and serving staff. The
                                        increase in volume of food to be prepared and serving a larger number of
                                        patrons increases the potential for human error and the likelihood of harm.




 How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                     Page 16 of 33
Are hazards more likely to          Examples of situations where the risk of injury or illness may become more
cause harm because of the           likely:
working environment?                •   Environmental conditions change. For example, work performed in high
                                        temperatures in a small space increases the potential for mistakes because
                                        workers become fatigued more quickly; wet conditions make walkways and
                                        other things slippery.
                                    •   People are required to work quickly. The rate at which work is done (for
                                        example, number of repetitions) can over-stress a person’s body or make it
                                        more likely that mistakes will be made.
                                    •   There is insufficient light or poor ventilation.
                                    •   Poor natural surveillance, interacting with customers particularly at night or
                                        away from the usual workplace, or workplaces where alcohol is served can
                                        increase the likelihood of harmful behaviours (e.g. bullying, harassment,
                                        violence and aggression) occurring.
Could the way people act and        The possibility that people may make mistakes, misuse items, become
behave affect the likelihood of     distracted or panic in particular situations needs to be taken into account. The
a hazard causing harm?              effects of fatigue or stress may make it more likely that harm will occur.
Do the differences between          Workers are not all the same and your risk assessment should allow for
individuals in the workplace        individual variability, for example:
make it more likely for harm to
occur?                              •   People respond to hazards at work in different ways, which means some
                                        workers are more susceptible to harm.
                                    •   People, such as people with disabilities may be more likely to suffer harm if
                                        the workplace or process is not designed for their needs (e.g. PPE doesn’t
                                        fit well, or the workplace or consultation processes are not accessible to all
                                        workers).
                                    •   New or young workers may be more likely to suffer harm because of
                                        inexperience.
                                    •   People who do not normally work at the workplace will have less knowledge
                                        than employees who normally work there and may be more likely to suffer
                                        harm. These people include contractors, visitors or members of the public.
                                    •   While anyone can experience harassment or other harmful behaviours there
                                        are certain groups who are more likely to experience it. Some workers may
                                        be at greater risk because of their age, gender, sexuality, migration status,
                                        disability and literacy.
                       Table 2 – Questions to help estimate likelihood of harm occurring




 How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                      Page 17 of 33
4. Step 3—How to control risks
The most important step in managing risks involves eliminating them so far as is reasonably practicable, or if that
is not reasonably practicable, minimising the risks so far as is reasonably practicable.
In deciding how to control risks, as a PCBU, you must consult your workers and their representatives who will be
directly affected by this decision. Their experience will help you choose appropriate control measures and their
involvement will increase the level of acceptance of any changes that may be needed to the way they do their
job.
There are many ways to control risks. Some control measures are more effective than others.
You must consider various control options and choose the control that most effectively eliminates the hazard or
minimises the risk in the circumstances. This may involve a single control measure or a combination of different
controls that together provide the highest level of protection that is reasonably practicable.
Some problems can be fixed easily and should be done straight away, while others will need more effort and
planning to resolve. Of those requiring more effort, you should prioritise areas for action, focusing first on those
hazards with the highest level of risk.
The WHS Regulation requires some risks to be managed in a certain way (for example, falls from height) or sets
out relevant matters which PCBUs must have regard to (for example, psychosocial risks or hazardous manual
tasks).


4.1. The hierarchy of control measures
The ways of controlling risks are ranked from the highest level of protection and reliability to the lowest as shown
in Figure 2. This ranking is known as the hierarchy of control measures.
The hierarchy of control measures can be applied in relation to any risk. The WHS Regulation makes it
mandatory for duty holders to work through this hierarchy when managing certain risks.




                                 Figure 2 – The hierarchy of control measures




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                       Page 18 of 33
You must always aim to eliminate the risk, which is the most effective control. If this is not reasonably
practicable, you must minimise the risk by working through the other alternatives in the hierarchy.
The lower levels in the hierarchy are less effective because controls that change the hazard or minimise
exposure to the hazard can only minimise the risk. You cannot eliminate the risk without eliminating the hazard.
Administrative controls and PPE are the least effective at minimising risk because they do not control the hazard
at the source and rely on human behaviour and supervision. These control measures should only be used:
•   to supplement higher level control measures (as a back-up)
•   as a short-term interim measure until a more effective way of controlling the risk can be used
•   when there are no other practical control measures available (as a last resort).

Elimination

The most effective control measure involves eliminating the hazard and associated risk. The best way to do this
is by, firstly, not introducing the hazard into the workplace. For example, you can eliminate the risk of a fall from
height by doing the work at ground level.
Eliminating hazards is often cheaper and more practical to achieve at the design or planning stage of a product,
process or place used for work. In these early phases, there is greater scope to design out hazards or
incorporate risk control measures that are compatible with the original design and functional requirements. For
example, not using a noisy machine will be more effective than providing workers with personal hearing
protectors.
You can also eliminate risks by removing an existing hazard, for example, by removing trip hazards on the floor,
disposing of unwanted chemicals, or not working in an isolated or remote area.
It may not be reasonably practicable to eliminate a hazard if doing so means that you cannot make the end
product or deliver the service. If you cannot eliminate the hazard, then you must minimise as many of the risks
associated with the hazard as reasonably practicable.

Substitution, isolation and engineering controls
If it is not reasonably practicable to eliminate the hazards and associated risks, you must minimise the risks
using one or more of the following approaches, so far as is reasonably practicable.

Substitute the hazard with something safer

For instance, replace solvent-based paints with water-based ones or manage both the physical and psychosocial
risks by allowing workers to have more control of line speed instead of pacing line work by computer.

Isolate the hazard from people

This involves physically separating the source of harm from people by distance or using barriers. For instance,
install guardrails around exposed edges and holes in floors; use remote control systems to operate machinery;
store chemicals in a fume cabinet; place barriers between workers and customers or move services online
where there is a risk of violence or aggression or other harmful behaviours.

Use engineering controls

An engineering control is a control measure that is physical in nature, including a mechanical device or process.
For instance, use mechanical devices such as trolleys or hoists to move heavy loads, place guards around
moving parts of machinery; install residual current devices (electrical safety switches), set work rates on a
production line to reduce fatigue; install sound dampening measures to reduce exposure to unpleasant or
hazardous noise; ensure IT systems are fit for purpose to reduce job demands.




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                       Page 19 of 33
Administrative controls

If risks remain, they must be minimised by implementing administrative controls so far as is reasonably
practicable. Administrative controls include work methods or procedures that are designed to minimise exposure
to a hazard as well as the information, training and instruction needed to ensure workers can work safely.
For instance, develop procedures on how to operate machinery safely; provide training and support to managers
and workers to identify and manage both physical and psychosocial health and safety risks; implement
workplace behavioural policies, limit exposure time to a hazardous task; and/or use signs to warn people of a
hazard.
Some administrative measures will be necessary to ensure substitution, isolation and engineering controls are
implemented effectively, for example, following safe work procedures when using equipment.
See section 4.2 below for information on implementing control measures.

Personal protective equipment (PPE)

Any remaining risks must be minimised with suitable PPE.
Examples of PPE include ear muffs, respirators, face masks, hard hats, gloves, aprons and protective eyewear.
PPE limits exposure to the harmful effects of a hazard but only if workers wear and use the PPE correctly.


WHS Regulation section 44

Provision to workers and use of personal protective equipment


If PPE is to be used at the workplace, you must ensure the equipment is:
•   Selected to minimise risk to health and safety, including by ensuring that the equipment is suitable for the
    nature of the work and any hazard associated with the work and is of suitable size and fit and reasonably
    comfortable for the worker who is to use or wear it.
•   Maintained, repaired and replaced so that is continues to minimise risk to the worker who uses it, including
    by ensuring that the equipment is clean and hygienic, and in good working order.
If you direct the carrying out of work, you must provide the worker with information, training and instruction in the
proper use and wearing of PPE, and the storage and maintenance of PPE.
A worker must, so far as reasonably able, use or wear the PPE in accordance with any information, training or
reasonable instruction and must not intentionally misuse or damage the equipment.


4.2. How to develop and implement control options
Information about suitable controls for many common hazards and risks can be obtained from:
•   codes of practice and guidance material
•   manufacturers and suppliers of plant, substances and equipment used in your workplace
•   industry associations and unions.
In some cases, published information will provide guidance on the whole work process. In other cases, the
guidance may relate to individual items of plant or how to safely use specific substances. You may use the
recommended control options if they suit your situation and eliminate or minimise the risk.

Developing specific control measures

You may need to develop specific control measures if the available information is not relevant to the hazards and
risks or circumstances at your workplace. This can be done by referring to the chain of events that were
recorded during the risk assessment.




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                       Page 20 of 33
For each of the events in the sequence, ask: ‘What can be done to stop or change the event occurring?’ An
example of this approach is shown in Appendix C.
Working through the events in the sequence will give you ideas about possible ways to eliminate or minimise the
risk. There may be more than one solution for each of the events. The control option you choose should be:
•   one or more controls that provide the highest level of protection for people and is the most reliable—that is,
    controls located towards the top of the hierarchy in Figure 2
•   available—that is, it can be purchased, made to suit or be put in place
•   suitable for the circumstance in your workplace—that is, it will work properly given the workplace conditions,
    work process and your workers.
Where the hazard or risk has the potential to cause death, serious injury or illness, more emphasis should be
given to those controls that eliminate or reduce the level of harm, than those that reduce the likelihood of harm
occurring.
Make sure that your chosen solution does not introduce new hazards. If this is not possible, any new hazards or
risks introduced will also need to be managed.
You may prepare a risk register that identifies the hazards, what action needs to be taken, who will be
responsible for taking the action and by when. An example is provided at Appendix D.

Cost of control measures
All risks can be controlled and it is always possible to do something, such as stopping the activity or providing
instructions to those exposed to the risk. There will normally be a number of different options between these two
extremes. Cost (in terms of time and effort as well as money) is just one factor to consider when determining the
best control option.
The cost of controlling risk may be taken into account in determining what is reasonably practicable but cannot
be used as a reason for doing nothing.
The greater the likelihood of harm occurring or the greater the extent of that harm, the less weight should be
given to the cost of controlling the hazard or risk.
If two control measures provide the same level of protection and are equally reliable, you can adopt the less
expensive option.
Cost cannot be used as a reason for adopting controls that rely exclusively on changing people’s behaviour or
actions when there are more effective controls available that can change the risk through substitution,
engineering or isolation.

Implementing controls

The control measures you put into operation will usually require changes to the way work is carried out, for
example, working with new or modified equipment or processes, new or different chemicals or new PPE. In
these situations, it is necessary to support the control measures with the following:

Work procedures

Develop a safe work procedure that describes the task, identifies the hazards and documents how the task is to
be performed to minimise the risks.

Training, instruction and information

Train your workers in the work procedure to ensure that they are able to perform the task safely. Training must
cover the nature of the work, the associated risks and the control measures to be implemented.
Training should require workers to demonstrate that they are competent in performing the task according to the
procedure. It is insufficient to simply give a worker the procedure and ask them to acknowledge that they
understand and are able to perform it. Training, instruction and information must be provided in a form that can
be understood by all workers.




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                     Page 21 of 33
Information and instruction may also need to be provided to others who enter the workplace, such as customers
or visitors.

Supervision

The level of supervision required will depend on the level of risk and the experience of the workers involved.
High levels of supervision are necessary where inexperienced workers are expected to follow new procedures or
carry out difficult and critical tasks.

Maintenance

Control measures need regular monitoring and maintenance to ensure they remain effective. You should decide
what is required when you implement the control and establish a schedule for routine checks and maintenance
appropriate to the controls.
You may prepare a risk register identifying the hazards, what action needs to be taken, who will be responsible
for taking the action and by when. An example is provided at Appendix D.

How to ensure controls remain effective

An important part of controlling risk is ensuring that your chosen control measures are maintained after their
initial implementation. The following actions may help you monitor the control measures you have implemented
and ensure that they remain effective.

Accountability for health and safety

Managers and supervisors should be provided with the authority and resources to implement and maintain
control measures effectively. Accountability should be clearly allocated to ensure procedures are followed and
maintained.

Maintenance of plant and equipment

This will involve scheduling and performing regular inspection and testing, repair or replacement of damaged or
worn plant and equipment. It includes checking that any control measures are suitable for the nature and
duration of work, are set up and used correctly.
Further information on maintaining plant and equipment is available in the Managing risks of plant in the
workplace Code of Practice.

Up-to-date training and competency

Most control measures depend on workers and supervisors having the appropriate competencies to do the job
safely. Training must be provided to maintain competencies and to ensure new workers are capable of working
safely.

Up-to-date hazard information

Information about hazards, such as plant and substances, may be updated by manufacturers and suppliers and
should be checked to make sure controls are still relevant. New technology may provide more effective solutions
than were previously available. Changes to operating conditions or the way activities are carried out may also
mean that control measures need to be updated.

Regular review and consultation

Control measures are more effective where there is regular review of work procedures and consultation with
your workers and their representatives.
If maintenance processes reveal new hazards, or existing hazards that are not being addressed, you will need to
perform a review of your control measures.



How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                    Page 22 of 33
5. Step 4—How to review controls
The control measures you, as a PCBU, put in place should be reviewed regularly to make sure they work as
planned. Don’t wait until something goes wrong.
The WHS Regulation requires a risk management process for specific risks. That process includes
circumstances where you must review your control measures for those risks and, if necessary, change them. A
review is required:
•   when the control measure is not effective in controlling the risk
•   before a change at the workplace that is likely to give rise to a new or different health and safety risk that the
    control measure may not effectively control
•   if a new hazard or risk is identified
•   if the results of consultation indicate that a review is necessary
•   if a health and safety representative requests a review.
In any case, as part of your ongoing duties as a PCBU, you should regularly review your control measures,
including in the above circumstances. Managing work health and safety risks is an ongoing process that needs
attention over time, but particularly when any changes affect your work activities.
You may use the same methods as in the initial hazard identification step (Chapter 2—How to identify
hazards) to check controls. Consult your workers and their health and safety representatives and consider the
following questions:
•   Are the control measures working effectively in both their design and operation?
•   Have the control measures introduced new problems?
•   Have all hazards been identified?
•   Have new work methods, new equipment or chemicals made the job safer?
•   Are safety procedures being followed?
•   Have the instruction and training provided to workers on how to work safely been successful?
•   Are workers actively involved in identifying hazards and possible control measures? Are they openly raising
    health and safety concerns and reporting problems promptly?
•   Are the frequency and severity of health and safety incidents reducing over time?
•   If new legislation or new information becomes available, does it indicate current controls may no longer be
    the most effective?
If problems are found, go back through the risk management steps (Chapter 4—How to control risks), review
your information and make further decisions about risk control. Priority for review should be based on the level of
risk. Control measures for high risks should be reviewed more frequently.
If you design, manufacture or supply products used for work, quality assurance processes may be used to check
the product effectively minimises health and safety risks. Obtain feedback from users of the product to determine
whether any improvements can be made to make it safer.




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                       Page 23 of 33
6. Keeping records
Keeping records of the risk management process demonstrates what you have done to comply with the WHS
Act and the WHS Regulation. It also helps when undertaking subsequent risk management activities, including
reviewing your control measures.
Keeping records of the risk management process has the following benefits. It:
•   allows you to demonstrate how decisions about controlling risks were made
•   assists in targeting training at key hazards
•   provides a basis for preparing safe work procedures
•   allows you to more easily review risks following any changes to legislation or business activities, and
•   demonstrates to others (regulators, investors, shareholders, customers) that work health and safety risks are
    being managed.
The detail and extent of recording will depend on the size of your workplace and the potential for major work
health and safety issues. It is useful to keep information on:
•   the identified hazards, assessed risks and chosen control measures (including any hazard checklists,
    worksheets and assessment tools used in working through the risk management process)
•   how and when the control measures were implemented, monitored and reviewed
•   who you consulted with
•   relevant training records, and
•   any plans for changes.
There are specific record-keeping requirements in the WHS Regulation for some hazards, such as hazardous
chemicals, plant and equipment. If such hazards have been identified at your workplace, you must keep the
relevant records for the time specified.
You should ensure that everyone in your workplace is aware of record-keeping requirements, including which
records are accessible and where they are kept.




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                     Page 24 of 33
Appendix A—Glossary
 Term                           Description
 Control measure                An action taken to eliminate or minimise health and safety risks so far
                                as is reasonably practicable. A hierarchy of control measures is set
                                out in the WHS Regulation to assist duty holders to select the highest
                                control measures reasonably practicable.
                                Note: The WHS Regulation also refers to a control measure as a risk
                                control measure or a risk control. In this Code, control measure is
                                used throughout.
 Duty holder                    Any person who owes a work health and safety duty under the WHS
                                Act including a person conducting a business or undertaking, a
                                designer, manufacturer, importer, supplier, installer of products or
                                plant used at work (upstream duty holder), officer or a worker.
 Hazard                         A situation or thing that has the potential to harm a person. Hazards
                                at work may include noisy machinery, a moving forklift, chemicals,
                                electricity, working at heights, a repetitive job, bullying and violence at
                                the workplace.
 Health                         Health includes both physical and psychological health.
 Health and safety              A consultative body established under the WHS Act. The committee's
 committee                      functions include facilitating cooperation between workers and the
                                person conducting a business or undertaking to ensure workers’
                                health and safety at work, and assisting to develop work health and
                                safety standards, rules and procedures for the workplace.
 Health and safety              A worker who has been elected by their work group under the WHS
 representative                 Act to represent them on health and safety matters.
 Managing risk                  This is a process set out in the WHS Regulation to eliminate health
                                and safety risks so far as is reasonably practicable, or if this is not
                                reasonably practicable, minimise the risks so far as is reasonably
                                practicable.
                                It includes identifying hazards, assessing and implementing control
                                measures, and reviewing and maintaining the control measures to
                                ensure their ongoing effectiveness.
 May                            ‘May’ indicates an optional course of action.
 Must                           ‘Must’ indicates a legal requirement exists that must be complied with.
 Officer                        An officer under the WHS Act includes:
                                •   an officer under section 9 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth)
                                •   an officer of the Crown within the meaning of section 247 of the
                                    WHS Act, and
                                • an officer of a public authority within the meaning of section 252
                                    of the WHS Act.
                                A partner in a partnership or an elected member of a local authority is
                                not an officer while acting in that capacity.
 Person conducting a            A PCBU is an umbrella concept which intends to capture all types of
 business or undertaking        working arrangements or relationships.
 (PCBU)                         A PCBU includes a:
                                •   company
                                •   unincorporated body or association


How to manage work health and safety risks                                                     Page 25 of 33
How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                      Page 25 of 33
 Term                          Description
                               • sole trader or self-employed person.
                               Individuals who are in a partnership that is conducting a business will
                               individually and collectively be a PCBU.
                               A volunteer association (defined under the WHS Act, see below) or
                               elected members of a local authority will not be a PCBU.
 Psychosocial hazards          A psychosocial hazard is a hazard that may cause psychological
                               harm (whether or not it may also cause physical harm). They arise
                               from or relate to the design or management of work, the work
                               environment, plant at a workplace, or workplace interactions or
                               behaviours.
 Risk                          The possibility harm (death, injury or illness) might occur when
                               exposed to a hazard.
 Should                        ‘Should’ indicates a recommended course of action.
 Volunteer association         A group of volunteers working together for one or more community
                               purposes where none of the volunteers, whether alone or jointly with
                               any other volunteers, employs any person to carry out work for the
                               volunteer association.
 Work group                    A group of workers established to facilitate the representation of
                               workers by one or more health and safety representatives. A work
                               group may be all workers at a workplace but it may also be
                               appropriate to split a workplace into multiple work groups where
                               workers share similar work conditions or are exposed to similar risks
                               and hazards. For example all workers on night shift.
 Worker                        Any person who carries out work for a person conducting a business
                               or undertaking, including work as an employee, contractor or
                               subcontractor (or their employee), self-employed person, outworker,
                               apprentice or trainee, work experience student, employee of a labour
                               hire company placed with a 'host employer' or a volunteer.
 Workplace                     Any place where work is carried out for a business or undertaking and
                               includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at
                               work. This may include offices, factories, shops, construction sites,
                               vehicles, ships, aircraft or other mobile structures on land or water.




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                     Page 26 of 33
Appendix B—Examples of the risk
management process
Example 1

Two years ago, the Burbs Municipal Council implemented a number of written health and safety
procedures used to train workers how to carry out particular tasks safely. As these procedures had
not been reviewed since their implementation, the Safety Manager implemented a new approach to
not only review these procedures but also promote health and safety more widely across the
organisation by encouraging staff involvement and cooperation.
To do this, the Safety Manager established and facilitated safety workshops each Friday for an hour
where a team would review a particular task and its procedures to identify hazards, assess risks and
consider options to control these. The team included management, council workers, the respective
health and safety representative and any contractors engaged to carry out the work.
The Safety Manager’s approach was to facilitate the workshops but then hand this role over to the
relevant team supervisor, who would then facilitate future meetings to review other tasks conducted
by the workers. The written health and safety procedures were not used in the workshops as the
Safety Manager wanted to learn more about the hazards, risks and controls from the workers without
prompting. However, any changes discussed and agreed during the meeting would be included in the
revised written safety procedures.
The first safety workshop was conducted in the Parks and Gardens Branch and involved
management, workers, their health and safety representatives and a representative from the
maintenance shop that supplied the Parks and Gardens Branch with a variety of vehicles and
equipment. The task is outlined in Table 3.




 Safety workshop—20 August 2017

 Team                      Parks and Gardens Branch

 Task being reviewed       Cleaning of the toilets in the council’s parks

 Description of task       Undertaken each Monday morning by two workers in a council truck who
                           would clean the eight toilet blocks across the municipality

 What does the task        At the depot:
 involve?
                           •   load the truck with the compressor and pressure hose along with
                               cleaning chemicals and materials.
                           At the park:
                           •   open toilet block
                           •   clean toilets
                           •   unload compressor and pressure hose, place them in toilet block and
                               attach to tap, turn on compressor and hose walls and floors,
                           •   put compressor and pressure hose along with cleaning gear back on
                               truck
                           •   dry out toilet block floor by sweeping, and
                           •   leave park and go to next one.
                      Table 3 – Example 1: Safety workshop—20 August 2017



How to manage work health and safety risks                                               Page 27 of 33
How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                 Page 27 of 33
In order to gather advice and information from the team, the Safety Manager asked questions and
shared the responses by writing them on a whiteboard or butchers paper, as shown in Table 4.


               What hazards are              What risks do these pose           How are these risks
               encountered when doing        to health and safety?              currently controlled?
               the task?
 Plant         •   Truck                     •    Truck—faulty truck could      •   Truck and compressor
               •   Compressor and                 cause accident and                have maintenance
                   pressure hose                  cause injuries to workers         schedule
                                                  and others                    •   Checklist for visual
                                             •    Compressor and                    inspection for plant
                                                  pressure hose—faulty              before it leaves depot
                                                  fuel line in compressor       •   Reporting and tagging
                                                  could cause burns and             system for defective
                                                  injuries through fire or          plant
                                                  explosion
 Manual        •   Loading and unloading     •    Heavy load, awkward,          •   Compressor has
 handling          the compressor                 sustained postures and            handles fitted to assist
               •   Carrying the                   repetitive actions can            in lifting and carrying
                   compressor to and              cause sprains, strains,       •   Two persons required
                   from the toilet block          back injuries or fractures        to lift and carry
                                                  and cuts if dropped on            compressor
               •   Sweeping water to dry          foot
                   the floor                                                    •   Only workers who have
                                                                                    been trained able to lift
                                                                                    and carry compressor
                                                                                •   Floor sweeping roster
 Chemical      •   Cleaning agents used      •    Skin irritation, rashes and   •   Only non-toxic cleaning
                   to clean toilets and           illness caused by                 agents used
                   basins                         exposure to chemicals         •   Gloves provided to
                                                  and their vapours in              avoid skin contact
                                                  confined space
 Infection     •   Communicable              •    Contracting an infectious     •   Universal precautions
 at work           disease                        disease such as hepatitis         plus specific protection
               •   Non-communicable          •    Contracting a bacterial           for the route of
                   infection                      infection                         exposure

 Noise         •   Operating the             •    Hearing loss from             •   Hearing protection
                   compressor in a                prolonged exposure to             provided for wearing
                   closed space with              the noise levels                  when hosing out the
                   hard surfaces                  generated by the                  toilet block
                                                  compressor
                                             •    Noise even at levels that
                                                  do not damage hearing
                                                  can still create a
                                                  psychosocial hazard.
                                                  This can cause both
                                                  psychological and
                                                  physical harm.
 Slips,        •   Wet floor when hosing     •    Fractures or strains          •   Safety boots provided
 trips and         out the toilet block           caused by slipping on             with slip-resistant soles
 falls                                            wet surface
          Table 4 – Example 1: Questions asked by the Safety Manager and responses



How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                      Page 28 of 33
Many staff present at the workshop indicated it was a waste of time as everything discussed was
covered by the health and safety procedure, which they knew backwards. The Safety Manager
acknowledged this concern but then asked the team whether the way the task was being conducted
could be changed to improve health and safety.
One staff member raised concerns about lugging the compressor around 16 times every Monday
morning and that doing this tempted them to call in sick. The Safety Manager was curious about this
and asked why it was necessary to take the compressor off the truck and place it in the toilet. The
workers explained that the length of the hose on the pressure spray was short and could only be
operated with the compressor in the toilet block.
After hearing this, the representative from the maintenance shop who supplied the compressor
mentioned that they could attach a 10-metre hose to the compressor, which would mean the
compressor would not have to be taken off the truck. The team agreed this was a good idea and
would eliminate the manual handling risks associated with lifting and carrying the compressor. The
Safety Manager asked what other impacts this would have. The team agreed this would also reduce
the noise, and the associated psychosocial risks, as the compressor would now be outside the toilet
block. But the team noted there could be new risks associated with handling and storing a 10-metre
long hose. The team agreed to trial the new hose. It was then installed with a hose handling system.
Following the workshop, the Safety Manager asked the supervisor to ensure the modifications were
made within two weeks and to revise the procedures and have them checked by the health and safety
representative and workers.

Example 2

Jane Smith had been working at the local grocery store for the last 12 months. She had recently taken
on a new role as the bakery supervisor and was eager to review the work activities and safety
procedures. In preparing for the review, Jane considered how she would conduct the review and who
she should speak with.
As a first step, Jane identified the different activities and tasks that were carried out by the workers.
These included:
•   preparing a number of different products such as bread, cakes, slices and doughnuts
•   cleaning items used in product preparation, and
•   general housekeeping.
The next step was to analyse what was involved in each activity. Jane spent three mornings that
week with the four bakers who worked in the bakery department. She talked to them about the work
activities and what they thought could be changed to improve the safety of the workplace. One of the
bakers had been working in the store for over 10 years, while another had been working for over 25
years. The other two bakers were apprentices and had only been working with the store for around six
months.
From these discussions, Jane identified a number of key tasks the bakers carried out every day when
preparing the baked products:
•   moving the ingredients from their storage locations to the area of use
•   mixing the ingredients together using specialised mixers
•   transferring the mixture to the container for baking
•   putting them in the oven and removing them from the oven
•   slicing and decorating, and
•   packaging the products.
During an inspection of the bakery, Jane and the bakers identified a number of hazards, including:
•   the doughnut mixer was not guarded and the mixing bowl could be accessed when the machine
    was operating
•   the concrete floors were slippery in the mixing room and flour was spilt where the bakers walked



How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                        Page 29 of 33
•     low lighting in the food preparation area, and
•     there was narrow access and restricted movement in the storage area where the flour bags were
      kept.
Jane and the bakers discussed the risks associated with each of the hazards and what could be done
to control these risks. In relation to the unguarded mixer, one of the bakers suggested purchasing or
hiring a new model with an interlocking guard. After considering the ideas of the bakers, Jane
completed the risk register shown in Table 5.


    Risk register: XYZ Grocery Store Pty Ltd
    Work area                 Bakery department

    Form completed by         Jane Smith (Bakery supervisor)

    Date form completed       05/11/2017

    Hazard identification     Doughnut mixer not guarded and mixing bowl can be accessed when
                              machine is operating.

    Risk assessment           What is the harm the hazard could cause: The person operating the
                              mixer could be entangled in and injured by the moving parts if their hand
                              slipped in while the machine was operating. Harm could include cuts or
                              crush injuries such as broken bones, potentially resulting in amputation
                              or fatality.
                              What is the likelihood of this happening: This machine is used several
                              times a day. Two of the workers have not been working in the bakery for
                              a long time and are not very experienced in using the equipment.
                              Persons at risk: The four bakers who operate the machine.
                              Existing control measure: Staff follow policy and operating instructions
                              to use the mixer safely—not very effective because it relies on staff
                              keeping hands away from the dangerous parts.
                              Consequence: Serious injuries
                              Likelihood: Very likely
                              Outcome: High risk—the mixer must not be used again until the risk has
                              been controlled.

    Control measures

    Possible                  Elimination—Eliminating the use of the mixer completely will mean the
    control options           business cannot continue to sell baked products as the dough cannot be
                              mixed. Business revenue will suffer.
                              Substitution—Use of the mixer could be substituted by hand-mixing the
                              dough. One day’s production will be lost in the changeover. This method
                              can only be considered an interim option as it is not sustainable for more
                              than a day or two with present staff. However, part-time staff could be
                              hired to mix the dough. Business income would be reduced and impact
                              on revenue. Alternatively, the mixer could be replaced by purchasing a
                              new, safer machine with a built-in guard.
                              Engineering—The mixer could be modified by adding an interlocking
                              guard. A mixer could be hired for the period the old mixer is in for repairs.
                              One day’s production will be lost in this option. The modifications are
                              estimated to cost $1600. Other costs included are one day lost in




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                        Page 30 of 33
 Risk register: XYZ Grocery Store Pty Ltd
                            production, plus hire of substitute machine for approximately 10 days and
                            transport. Estimated cost is less than $6000.
                            Administrative or PPE—Staff told to keep hands away from the mixing
                            bowl while it is in use. Only the more experienced bakers are to operate
                            the mixer.

 Preferred                  Purchase a new mixer, which would not cost much more than having the
 control option             old one modified. Control measures have been planned to manage the
                            health and safety risks of mixing by hand while waiting for replacement
                            mixer to arrive. The costs involved are outweighed by worker safety and
                            this option eliminates the risk of injury.

 Implementation

 Associated activities      New mixer to be purchased. Mixing to be done by hand while waiting for
                            new mixer. May require staff working more hours
                            Resources required: Less than $6000
                            Person(s) responsible: Jane Smith—bakery supervisor
                            Sign off and date: J Smith 9/11/17

 Associated activities      Develop new work procedures
                            Provide training to bakers on using the new machine
                            Resources required: 3 hours
                            Person(s) responsible: Jane Smith—bakery supervisor
                            Sign off and date: J Smith 20/12/17

                                  Table 5 – Example 2: risk register


Jane repeated these steps for each hazard that she identified. The review of the work activities and
the implemented control measures improved the safety in the bakery department at the grocery store.



 Review

 Scheduled review date         31 January 2020

 Are the control               Yes—the new machine has an interlocking guard and bakers have
 measures in place?            been provided with training on how to use the machine in accordance
                               with the manufacturer’s instructions.

 Are the controls              Yes—the interlocking guard prevents people from putting their hand in
 eliminating or                the mixing bowl.
 minimising the risk?

 Are there any new             No.
 problems with the risk?




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                    Page 31 of 33
Appendix C—Assessing how things
can go wrong
It may be helpful to think through work processes or situations to identify what could go wrong. Note
any hazards, risks and control measures identified as you go.
Once completed, you should consider the hazards and risks you identified and implement control
measures in line with the hierarchy of control measures in order to eliminate or minimise the risks, so
far as is reasonably practicable.




                          Figure 3 – Assessing how things can go wrong




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                     Page 32 of 33
Appendix D—Risk register
Location:        Click here to enter a date.
Date:   Click here to enter text.

                  What is the       What is the                       How effective
                  harm that the     likelihood                        are the          What further
                  hazard could      that the harm    What is the      current          controls are                                    Date            Maintenance
 Hazard           cause?            would occur?     level of risk?   controls?        required?       Actioned by     Date due        complete        and review

 Click here to    Click here to     Click here to    Click here to    Click here to    Click here to   Click here to   Click here to   Click here to   Click here to
 enter text.      enter text.       enter text.      enter text.      enter text.      enter text.     enter text.     enter a date.   enter a date.   enter text.

 Click here to    Click here to     Click here to    Click here to    Click here to    Click here to   Click here to   Click here to   Click here to   Click here to
 enter text.      enter text.       enter text.      enter text.      enter text.      enter text.     enter text.     enter a date.   enter a date.   enter text.

 Click here to    Click here to     Click here to    Click here to    Click here to    Click here to   Click here to   Click here to   Click here to   Click here to
 enter text.      enter text.       enter text.      enter text.      enter text.      enter text.     enter text.     enter a date.   enter a date.   enter text.

 Click here to    Click here to     Click here to    Click here to    Click here to    Click here to   Click here to   Click here to   Click here to   Click here to
 enter text.      enter text.       enter text.      enter text.      enter text.      enter text.     enter text.     enter a date.   enter a date.   enter text.

 Click here to    Click here to     Click here to    Click here to    Click here to    Click here to   Click here to   Click here to   Click here to   Click here to
 enter text.      enter text.       enter text.      enter text.      enter text.      enter text.     enter text.     enter a date.   enter a date.   enter text.




How to manage work health and safety risks Code of Practice 2021                      Page 33 of 33
