THE PROJECT
BUILDERS/FINAL CLEAN
SCOPE OF WORKS

Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a CONSTRUCT ONLY subcontract and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant, tools and equipment necessary to carry out the complete BUILDERS/FINAL CLEANING WORKS required for a complete and functioning FIVE STAR RESORT, fit for its purpose, In its entirety and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practise, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities as generally described below including but not limited to:

The subcontractor is deemed to, but not limited to, have:
1. Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Contractor to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.
2. Visited site.
3. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
4.  Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
5. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.
INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW:
The project, Central Facilities is located on the site and will be the central hub for a two hundred, individual cabin, five star beach resort.

Central facilities consist of five separate buildings numbered one to five:

· Building 1 holds the pool café and bar, two multi purpose rooms and kitchen.
· Building 2 consist of the port-cochere, reception, foyer, restaurant, main kitchen, conference centre and admin offices.
· Building 3 is the day spa and gym.
· Building 4 is housekeeping.
· Building 5 is the pool plantroom.

Central Facilities also has a 1000m2 swimming pool and spa.
Buildings 1, 2 and 3 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground in a raft design
· Structural steel frame with composite purlins
· Aluminium framed glazing and doors
· Aluminium roofing

Building 4 and 5 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground
· Blockwork
· Steel frames and timber trusses
· Metal roof

DESCRIPTION OF WORK:
All builders plus final cleaning ready for the opening of the resort including but not limited to:
· Kitchen areas
· Bathrooms/wet areas
· Conference rooms
· Restaurants
· Plantrooms
· Café
· Bars
· Back of House (BOH) areas
· Corridors
· Glazing
· External pool area
· Road surface cleaning

INCLUSIONS
1.0 INSURANCE
Provide Work Cover as per one of the below options:
1. NSW Work Cover Policy.
2. Written confirmation from Qcover that this specific project is covered for the duration of the works.
Provide Public Liability insurance valued at minimum $____.
2.0 PROGRAM
2.1 Contractor's Program
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that:
1. it has carefully reviewed the Contractors program or proposed program for the project; and
2. it is able to and shall perform its obligations consistently with any such program.
3. Liquidated Damages apply to this subcontract.
2.2 Amended Program
If the Contractor's program is updated, amended or replaced the Subcontractor shall take whatever action is necessary to perform its obligations consistently with any such program (without becoming obliged to accelerate the whole of the work under the Subcontract so as to bring forward the Date for Practical Completion). The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any Claim arising out of or in connection with the effects of the Contractor's program being updated, amended or replaced.  The Contractor does not warrant that the project or any other work will be carried out consistently with the Contractor's program.
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that it has a clear understanding of the allowances for delay made in the Contractor's program and has included in its program such delay allowances as it considers necessary. If any such allowances prove inadequate and/or actual delays exceed allowances, then the Subcontractor shall reduce the net duration of its activities accordingly and the Subcontractor has allowed for that reduction, without being entitled to any Claim.
2.3 Completion on Time
The Subcontractor shall achieve Practical Completion, of their work, by the Dates required by the Contractor.
2.4 Working days
Normal days for working onsite are Monday to Saturday and the Subcontractor has allowed for this in their tender. Working on Saturdays is compulsory for all trades.
3.0 STANDARD OF WORK AND PERFORMANCE
In addition to any other obligation, representation or warranty, whether statutory or otherwise, the Subcontractor shall to the satisfaction of the Contractor:
1. construct the Works in accordance with the Subcontract:
a) using best work practices; and
b) using materials described in the Subcontract conditions, or failing any specific description then of the best quality available which are fit for their intended purpose;
2. ensure that the Works during and after construction comply with all the requirements of or to be inferred from:
a) the Subcontract;
b) the requirements from time to time of the Building Code of Australia and all relevant statutes, codes, delegated legislation and codes published by the Standards Association of Australia; and
c) all relevant Authorities;
3. Exercise utmost good faith and full disclosure to the Contractor in performing its obligations under the Subcontract including without limitation when it makes claims for progress and other payments; and
4. Supply and execute items not expressly mentioned in the Subcontract but which are necessary or usual for work similar to the Works, without being entitled to any Claim.

4.0 TRADE SPECIFIC INCLUSIONS

	1. Provide all necessary labour, materials, plant and equipment necessary to complete the final clean and associated Works in accordance with the drawings, specifications, construction program and relevant Australian Standards, statutory requirements and professional standards including everything necessary for the proper and timely completion in a properly coordinated and safe manner.
2. Scope in general is to complete the Final Clean Works to the project as we would be expected for a five star resort, as per the below documentation including but not limited to:
· 70% clean of wet areas and kitchen – Scope Mark Up
· External areas to be cleaned – Scope Mark Up
· BOH Areas – Scope Mark Up
· Builders Clean - Scope of Works Checklist

3. Supply all labour and materials to complete the cleaning.
4. All rubbish/debris is to be removed and placed into skip bins provided.
5. The upmost care is to be taken at all times and any damage to finishers, unless brought to the attention of the Contractor prior to cleaning, will be deemed caused by the Subcontractor and cost to replace repair back charged to the subcontractor.
6. All MSDS sheets of all chemicals being used on-site, safety plans and work method statements for cleaning of stainless steel, Stone and Glazing are to be submitted to the Contractor prior to commencing on site.
7. Cleaning of glass– special care is to be taken when cleaning of glass. Removal of cemetious mortars is to be done by wet or chemical (approved by the Contractor) removal not rubbed off dry.  Report all scratches and defects to the Contractor prior to starting.
8. Inform the Contractor if a trade clean has not been carried out to a suitable standard. If this is not reported and no site instruction given, no day labour will be paid.
9. No acid cleaning products to be used without prior consent of the Contractor in writing.
10. The Subcontractor is to note and report to the Contractor, in writing, any damage or faults found to the joinery, fixtures, fittings, appliances, finishes and the like during cleaning.
11. The Subcontractor is to allow for three, main, site visits to complete the cleaning:
· All wet areas and kitchens @ 70%
· Remainder clean including glass & external
· Final minor clean at completion

12. The Subcontractor is to wipe all bench tops, shelves, robes, drawers units including internal shelving, taking care to remove all marks from labels.

13. The Subcontractor is to vacuum and or sweep all floors, mop and polish all tile surfaces.

14. Thoroughly wipe out appliances (note: stainless steel finishes) taking care not to scratch surfaces.  Ensure the appropriate cleaning product and method is used for each appliance.  The Contractor will not accept damage to finished surface if not notified prior to cleaning the unit.

15. Toilets, basins, kitchen sinks and the like are to be cleaned including the removal of marks and protective coatings.  Also include bathroom hardware towel rails, towel rings, toilet roll holders and the like.

16. All mirrors are to be polished with marks from labels etc removed and a clean streak free finish.

17. All surfaces are to be dusted and cleaned with the removal of paint overspray and other foreign materials if required including the tops of doors, overhead cupboards and door hardware.

18. Light fittings are to be wiped down and cleaned including the inside of glass if required.

19. All windows are to be cleaned to a streak free finish including the removal of paint, mortar tags, render and the like on the frame and glass.  Both internal and external.  Ensure tracks of sliding doors and external windows are clean and free from obstruction.

20. All walls and skirting are to be wiped clean and free from marks.

21. Subcontractor is to provide supervision on site at all times to control labour.

22. Provide all access equipment necessary to complete the works. No EWP’s on tiled or carpet areas. Mobile scaffolds are to be used.




5.0 TESTING AND INSPECTIONS

1. The Subcontractor will be responsible for the quantity of materials required for the project.
2. The Subcontractor must accept delivery and check condition of materials prior to installation.
3. The Subcontractor shall obtain certification from the manufacturers of each material and that the material is of correct grade, strength, size, specification etc.
6.0 PROCUREMENT

1. The Subcontractor must submit samples for approval prior to order being placed.
2. The Subcontractor is to provide detailed lead time durations for the supply of material.

7.0 MANUFACTURE, STORAGE AND MATERIALS HANDLING

1. All materials handling will be by the Subcontractor.
2. The Subcontractor must provide all trade specific handling equipment for movement and installation of their work.
8.0 HANDOVER

1. The subcontractor shall allow for all documentation, certification and the like as per contract documentation and specification.
2. The subcontractor shall allow issuing a defects list prior to the Contractor performing their own final inspection.

10.0 GENERAL CONDITIONS (ALL SUBCONTRACTORS):
23. BCA 2014 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
24. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority, concerning maximum noise levels, sedimentation control and control of dust.
25. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
26. The Subcontractor shall ensure that vehicles leaving the site do so in a condition that is in accordance with the Site Environmental Management Plan and EPA requirements.
27. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Contractor.
28. The Contractor will provide one datum and two set out points for the subcontractor to work off. No other surveying will be provided.
29. Supervision of all Works to the required standard by personnel licensed and registered as required by statutory regulations and to the satisfaction of the Contractor.
30. Coordination and installation of the Subcontract Works with all preceding and following trades.
31. The Subcontractor shall ensure all of the Subcontractor’s personnel are inducted into the Subcontractor’s safety plan and have undertaken training and are competent in all tasks and work procedures.
32. All Subcontractor personnel are to attend Site “toolbox talks” / safety briefs as required at the Contractor’s discretion (minimum 1 x weekly and as nominated in the Contractors Project Site Safety Plan.
33. All electrical equipment required to carry out these Works must carry tags in conformance with the Workplace Health and Safety Act which includes provisions for monthly checks on all electrical equipment.  Electrical registers to be supplied and maintained.
34. All mobile plant and equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply and safety Authority requirements and be maintained in a first class condition at all times.  The Subcontractor is to keep records of maintenance and provide records to the Contractor on request. Copies of last major service records and daily/weekly operator’s checklists to be supplied to the Contractor prior to use.
35. Supply all necessary material safety data sheets, risk assessments, safe work method statements and training records prior to commencement on Site.
36. It is mandatory Site requirement that, in addition to safety boots, hi-visibility clothing and hard hats, all employees are to wear long sleeve clothing whilst on Site.
37. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required for their work tasks.
38. The Subcontractor is to remove their own rubbish at the end of each day from the work area and place in bins provided by the Contractor. The Subcontractor shall empty rubbish into these bins on a regular basis The Subcontractor is responsible to provide their own wheelie bins to transport rubbish to Contractor supplied bins. The Subcontractor shall dispose of all waste material in an approved manner. No material whatsoever including building fittings and fixtures shall be disposed of in non-Contractor approved bins
39. Provide labourers, brooms, shovels, wheelbarrows/wheelie bins etc for regular Site clean ups at the request of the Contractor. Should the Subcontractor fail to adhere to regular Site cleanups, the Contractor will supply labour and equipment at the Subcontractor’s expense.
40. Provide an installation certificate in the form required by the Contractor certifying that the materials and workmanship installed in the Subcontract Works comply with:-
· The Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Australian Standards and good engineering practice covering the installation;
· The requirements of the Subcontract Documents and that the installation is suitable for the intended purpose;
· Completion of all defects and outstanding Works under the Subcontract.

11.0 EXCLUSIONS:
· None


12.0 SUBCONTRACT SUM BREAKDOWN

	Item #
	Description
	Value

	1.
	70% clean of wet area and kitchens
	$____

	2.
	Remainder clean including glass & external
	$____

	3.
	Final minor clean at completion
	$____

	4.
	PC Sum – 100 hours of labour
	$____




13. AGREED SUBCONTRACT RATES

	Item #
	Description
	Unite
	Rate

	1.
	Labour rate
	Hourly
	$____

	2.
	Glass cleaning
	M3
	$____

	3.
	Road cleaning (machine)
	Hourly
	$____

	4.
	Water blast
	Hourly
	$____





