THE PROJECT
DOORS AND HARDWARE
SCOPE OF WORKS


Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a supply and install subcontract and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant, tools and equipment necessary to document, manufacture, deliver, install and certify the complete METAL FRAMES, TIMBER DOORS AND HARDWARE work required for complete and functioning buildings, fit for there purpose, In its entirety to drawings and Specifications and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practice, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities as generally described below including but not limited to:
The following Clauses shall be read in conjunction with the drawings and specifications, available on the Contractors document register website (FTP) and other relevant documents which make up this subcontract to ascertain the total works. Where there are discrepancies, between Architectural, Structural and Subcontractor shop drawings the Architectural drawings will take precedence, followed by shop drawings.

The Subcontractor is deemed to but not limited to:
1. Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Contractor to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.
2. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
3.  Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
4. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.
INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW:
The project, Central Facilities is located on the site and will be the central hub for a two hundred, individual cabin, beach resort.

Central facilities consist of five separate buildings numbered one to five:

· Building 1 holds the pool café and bar, two multi purpose rooms and kitchen.
· Building 2 consist of the port-cochere, reception, foyer, restaurant, main kitchen, conference centre and admin offices.
· Building 3 is the day spa and gym.
· Building 4 is housekeeping.
· Building 5 is the pool plantroom.

Central facilities also has a 1000m2 swimming pool and spa.
Buildings 1, 2 and 3 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground in a raft design
· Structural steel frame with composite purlins
· Aluminium framed glazing and doors
· Aluminium roofing

Building 4 and 5 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground
· Blockwork
· Steel frames and timber trusses
· Metal roof

DESCRIPTION OF WORK AREA:
The scope of work includes but is not limited to the following principal areas: -

· Supply all metal door frames.
· Supply and install all timber doors including non-fire rated and fire rated.
· Supply and install all hardware to supplied timber doors and doors by the interior fit-out subcontractor.
· Provide final certification of all fire rated doors.

All frames are stainless steel as per below:
· 316-2B external frames; and
· 304-2B internal frames.
All frames are to be paint finished by others.
All frames are prepared to receive scheduled hardware and fixing detail. Onsite cutting and welding of frames is to be avoided and final acceptance of frames modified onsite is by the Contractor.
All doors are supplied as facings of tempered hardboard ready to be painted.
Supply and install door hardware as per the hardware supplier's schedule ____.
Doors to be prepared ready to receive hardware and prior to fitting off hardware doors are to be final painted (by others).
Supply and fit all door protection types 1 – 4 as per the door schedule including cutting out for locks. Fixing detail for door protection is to be approved by the Contractor prior to fabrication.
Provide shop drawings of all frame fixing details and frame profiles for approval by the Contractor prior to fabrication.
Bottoms of doors are to be sealed (painted) prior to being hung.

SPECIFIC INCLUSIONS
INSURANCE
Provide Work Cover as per one of the below options:
1. NSW Work Cover Policy.
2. Written confirmation from Qcover that this specific project is covered for the duration of the works.
PROGRAM
Contractor's Program
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that:
1. it has carefully reviewed the Principals program or proposed program for the project; and
2. it is able to and shall perform its obligations consistently with any such program.
Amended Program
If the Principal's program is updated, amended or replaced the Subcontractor shall take whatever action is necessary to perform its obligations consistently with any such program (without becoming obliged to accelerate the whole of the work under the Subcontract so as to bring forward the Date for Practical Completion). The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any Claim arising out of or in connection with the effects of the Principal's program being updated, amended or replaced.  The Contractor does not warrant that the project or any other work will be carried out consistently with the Principal's program.
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that it has a clear understanding of the allowances for delay made in the Principal's program and has included in its program such delay allowances as it considers necessary. If any such allowances prove inadequate and/or actual delays exceed allowances, then the Subcontractor shall reduce the net duration of its activities accordingly and the Subcontractor has allowed for that reduction, without being entitled to any Claim.
TESTING AND INSPECTIONS
1. The Subcontractor shall supply all test certificates for applications, fixings and the like and as required to satisfy the Contractor or Client.
2. The Subcontractor should accept delivery and check condition of materials prior to installation.
3. The Subcontractor shall obtain certification from the manufacturers of each material.

MANUFACTURE, STORAGE AND MATERIALS HANDLING

1. All materials handling will be by the Subcontractor.
2. Minimal storage is available onsite.
INSTALLATION

1. Provision of all equipment required to carry out the works in accordance with all statutory OHS requirements.
2. Carry out all works in strict accordance with the relevant Australian Standards and Authority requirements.
3. Execution of the Works in the sequence required by the Contractor and allowance for breaks in continuity.
4. The Subcontractor shall allow for all labour and supervision costs to work on a number of dedicated work fronts as requested by the Contractor to meet programme requirements.
5. In the event that works are damaged by another trade, the Subcontractor must attempt to resolve costs for the rectification works directly with the trade which damaged the works.  If this has been unsuccessful, the Subcontractor may request the Contractor assistance to resolve the matter.
6. The Subcontractor shall allow for dyna-bolts, masonry bolts etc.
7. The Subcontractor shall allow for a full time supervisor to attend all meetings.
8. The Subcontractor shall allow for all rubbish to be placed in the bins provided.
HANDOVER
1. The Subcontractor shall allow for all documentation, certification and the like as per contract documentation and specification to the satisfaction of the Principal.
2. The Subcontractor has allowed for training of the Clients building manager in the usage and maintenance of the swimming pool and water features during the three months maintenance period allowed for under this Subcontract.
MAINTENANCE AND WARRANTIES
1. Provision of comprehensive Warranties fit for purpose, for period of ten (10) years. All warranties commence on the Date of Practical Completion for the Head Contract.
HEIGHT AND FALL MITIGATION ONSITE
1. All A-frames or trestles used as a working platform must have a handrail and kickboard (or mesh-guard). This is applicable to working platforms of ANY height, unless otherwise approved by The Contractor.
2. All mobile scaffolds are to be erected with plan bracing, handrails, kickboards and have ladder access. No split platforms are to be used on Mobile Scaffolds.
3. All drivers and Dogman must have a fall protection system in place that eliminates the potential to fall from heights whilst off-loading materials and slinging loads.
4. All installations and systems for Materials Handling and off-loading are put in place for Fall Prevention of all workers.  This includes any new best practices that may be adopted throughout the project.
5. Harnesses are not to be used at any time without prior approval from The Contractor.

GENERAL CONDITIONS (ALL SUBCONTRACTORS):
1. BCA 2014 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
2. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority, concerning maximum noise levels, sedimentation control and control of dust.
3. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
4. The Subcontractor shall ensure that vehicles leaving the site do so in a condition that is in accordance with the Site Environmental Management Plan and EPA requirements.
5. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Contractor.
6. The Contractor will provide one datum and two set out points for the subcontractor to work off. No other surveying will be provided.
7. Supervision of all Works to the required standard by personnel licensed and registered as required by statutory regulations and to the satisfaction of the Principal.
8. Coordination and installation of the Subcontract Works with all preceding and following trades.
9. The Subcontractor shall ensure all of the Subcontractor’s personnel are inducted into the Subcontractor’s safety plan and have undertaken training and are competent in all tasks and work procedures.
10. All Subcontractor personnel are to attend Site “toolbox talks” / safety briefs as required at the Principal’s discretion (minimum 1 x weekly and as nominated in the Principals Project Site Safety Plan.
11. All electrical equipment required to carry out these Works must carry tags in conformance with the Workplace Health and Safety Act which includes provisions for monthly checks on all electrical equipment.  Electrical registers to be supplied and maintained.
12. All mobile plant and equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply and safety Authority requirements and be maintained in a first class condition at all times.  The Subcontractor is to keep records of maintenance and provide records to the Contractor on request. Copies of last major service records and daily/weekly operator’s checklists to be supplied to the Contractor prior to use.
13. Supply all necessary material safety data sheets, risk assessments, safe work method statements and training records prior to commencement on Site.
14. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required for their work tasks.
15. The Subcontractor is to remove their own rubbish at the end of each day from the work area and place in bins provided by the Principal. The Subcontractor shall empty rubbish into these bins on a regular basis The Subcontractor is responsible to provide their own wheelie bins to transport rubbish to Contractor supplied bins. The Subcontractor shall dispose of all waste material in an approved manner. No material whatsoever including building fittings and fixtures shall be disposed of in non-Contractor approved bins
16. Provide labourers, brooms, shovels, wheelbarrows/wheelie bins etc for regular Site clean ups at the request of the Principal. Should the Subcontractor fail to adhere to regular Site cleanups, the Contractor will supply labour and equipment at the Subcontractor’s expense.
17. Provide an installation certificate in the form required by the Contractor certifying that the materials and workmanship installed in the Subcontract Works comply with:-
· The Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Australian Standards and good engineering practice covering the installation;
· The requirements of the Subcontract Documents and that the installation is suitable for the intended purpose;
· Completion of all defects and outstanding Works under the Subcontract.

EXCLUSIONS:

· Cutting out doors for grilles.
· Supplying door grilles.
· Supply of hardware for doors not supplied.
· Fitting of electric strikes.

SUBCONTRACT SUM BREAKDOWN

As per the attached document:

· Builder's amended door schedule with opening sizes (attached)





