THE PROJECT
ELECTRICAL SERVICES
SCOPE OF WORKS


Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a construct only subcontract and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant, tools and equipment necessary to document, shop draw, manufacture, deliver, install and certify the complete ELECTRICAL SERVICES required for a complete and functioning resort, fit for its purpose, In its entirety to drawings and Specifications and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practise, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities as generally described below including but not limited to:

The subcontractor is deemed to, but not limited to, have:
1. Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Contractor to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.
2. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
3.  Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
4. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.
INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW:
The project, Central Facilities is located on the site and will be the central hub for a two hundred, individual cabin, beach resort.

Central facilities consist of five separate buildings numbered one to five:

· Building 1 holds the pool café and bar, two multi purpose rooms and kitchen.
· Building 2 consist of the port-cochere, reception, foyer, restaurant, main kitchen, conference centre and admin offices.
· Building 3 is the day spa and gym.
· Building 4 is housekeeping.
· Building 5 is the pool plantroom.

Central Facilities also has a 1000m2 swimming pool and spa.
Buildings 1, 2 and 3 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground in a raft design
· Structural steel frame with composite purlins
· Aluminium framed glazing and doors
· Aluminium roofing

Building 4 and 5 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground
· Blockwork
· Steel frames and timber trusses
· Metal roof
DESCRIPTION OF WORK:
Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract, the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant and equipment necessary to carry out, shop draw, commission and certify all of the Electrical Services works to the project, Central Facilities.

INCLUSIONS
1.0 INSURANCE
Provide Work Cover as per one of the below options:
1. NSW Work Cover Policy.
2. Written confirmation from Qcover that this specific project is covered for the duration of the works.
2.0 PROGRAM
2.1 Contractor's Program
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that:
1. it has carefully reviewed the Contractors program or proposed program for the project; and
2. it is able to and shall perform its obligations consistently with any such program.
2.2 Amended Program
If the Contractor's program is updated, amended or replaced the Subcontractor shall take whatever action is necessary to perform its obligations consistently with any such program (without becoming obliged to accelerate the whole of the work under the Subcontract so as to bring forward the Date for Practical Completion). The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any Claim arising out of or in connection with the effects of the Contractor's program being updated, amended or replaced.  The Contractor does not warrant that the project or any other work will be carried out consistently with the Contractor's program.
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that it has a clear understanding of the allowances for delay made in the Contractor's program and has included in its program such delay allowances as it considers necessary. If any such allowances prove inadequate and/or actual delays exceed allowances, then the Subcontractor shall reduce the net duration of its activities accordingly and the Subcontractor has allowed for that reduction, without being entitled to any Claim.
2.3 Completion on Time
The Subcontractor shall achieve Practical Completion by the Date for Practical Completion.
5.0 TESTING AND INSPECTIONS

1. The Subcontractor must ensure all necessary Site measurement is carried out prior to fabrication.
2. The Subcontractor will be responsible for the quantity of materials required for the project.
3. The Subcontractor shall supply all test certificates for applications, fixings and the like and as required to satisfy the Contractor or Client.
4. The Subcontractor should accept delivery and check condition of materials prior to installation.
5. The Subcontractor shall obtain certification from the manufacturers of each material and that the material is of correct grade, strength, size, specification etc.
4.0 TRADE SPECIFIC INCLUSIONS
4.1 Temporary Electrical Services
The extent of the Subcontract Works shall also include for, be subject to but not be limited to the following:
1. Shop draw, documentation, supply, delivery, installation, certification and subsequent removal of the temporary electrical services (lighting and power) in accordance with the Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Building Services Authority requirements, Building Code of Australia, Australian Standards and good building practice.
2. All temporary boards and temporary wiring are the property of the Contractor and remain so on completion.
3. Ensure all temporary switchboards supplied by the Contractor comply with relevant OHS and electrical legislation throughout the project and during the project.
4. The Subcontractor is responsible for co-ordinating the placement of temporary electrics to ensure the installation does not and will not conflict with permanent fixtures and services.  Drawings relating to placement and boards including circuit origin to be submitted to the Contractor for approval.
5. All equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the OHS and electrical Authority requirements along with AS 3000 and AS3012.
6. Out of hours work for power changeovers and the like.
7. The Subcontractor shall allow for maintenance of all temporary electrical equipment for the duration of the Head Contract Works including but not limited to replacement of globes, lamps, etc.
8. Connection to toilet blocks advised by the Contractor.
9. Connection to drinking fountains adjacent to all ablution blocks or at a location advised by the Contractor.
4.2 Three phase power
1. Supply and installation of 3 phase power to all temp boards as necessary to allow construction works to proceed.
4.3 Electrical services
The extent of the Subcontract Works shall also include for, be subject to but not be limited to the following:
1. This is a construct Subcontract with the Subcontractor having full responsibility for all aspects of construction to enable the installation of all components and associated Works to function correctly. The Subcontractor shall ensure that all relevant codes, manufacturers’ recommendations and specifications, local Authority, regulations and current good design and installation practices are complied with.
2. The following specifies the electrical services basic requirements but is not intended to describe all aspects of the electrical services in detail or electrical services requirements. Any performance requirements or equipment details which are not specifically described in the following but is required for the complete installation, operation and Authority Certification of the electrical services shall be provided and shall be included as part of the Subcontract Works.
3. Document, fabricate, supply, deliver, unload, handle, hoist, install and certify the following electrical, lighting, power, fire, communication and security services items in accordance with the Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Building Services Authority requirements, Building Code of Australia, Australian Standards and good building practice:-
· Authority Conduits;
· Consumer Mains;
· Underground mains;
· Main switchgear, transformers and any other equipment serving more than one distribution group including low, medium and high voltage gear.
· Power distribution, incoming mains and sub-mains
· Generators, motors, transformers, major equipment and similar items;
· Switchgear (switchboards and distribution boards) including connection to mains, provision of metering and all requirements for spare capacity;
· Distribution Boards;
· Cable Supports;
· General Power;
· Voice and Data;
· Security Access System;
· Intercom System;
· CCTV System;
· Computer system to monitor power usage.
· Switchboards;
· Final sub-circuit cabling;
· Complete lighting system complete with luminaires;
· Complete power systems including submains, power outlets and power supplies to all electrically operated equipment and final connections to same;
· Submains including fire rated submains and final sub circuits for fire services;
· Terminations of submains at all switchboards and control panels including mechanical and hydraulic switchboards and control panels;
· Earthing systems;
· Communication systems;
· Video intercom system;
· Energy monitoring to Central Facilities (Design by others);
· Emergency lighting and illuminated exit signs;
· Telephone cabling system;
· Kilowatt hour metering;
· Cable tray and ducting systems;
· Underground conduits, pits and cabling;
· Cable ladders, trays, ducts and similar items;
· Master Antennae Television system (MATV);
· Coordination of PABX connections including security, telephones, and visitor intercom system.
· Smoke alarms;
· Lightning protection system;
· Miscellaneous services as detailed;
· Workshop drawings and issue of samples;
· Training for final building manager and any other relevant personnel;
· Australian Communications Authority “C-Tick” compliance for all equipment;
· As build drawings and manuals;
· Testing and commissioning;
· Provision of Certificates as required by statutory Authorities etc;
· All electrical metering;
· All cabling and conduits;
· Excavation and backfilling;
· Removal of spoil;
· Electrical pits;
· Light fittings and switches;
· GPO and SPO’s.
· Telephone outlets;
· Finishes relevant to the electrical services

4. Screws, nails, bolts, nuts, nipples, standard cable fixing or supporting clips, saddles, brackets, straps, rivets, plugs, and similar items, and all incidental accessories.
5. Items laid in trench to include for excavation, maintaining faces of excavation, backfilling, compaction where appropriate, cable covers, warning tape and disposal of surplus spoil.
6. All fixings to various building surfaces for electrical conduits, fittings, equipment and similar items.
7. switchgear (switchboards and distribution boards) to include components such as circuit breakers, isolating switches, change over switches, switch fuses, fused switches, contactors, starters, meters, fuse chassis including number of ways per chassis, current transformers, test switches, isolating links, bus bars, neutral and earth bars.
8. Switchgear (switchboards and distribution boards) to include for interwiring and connections between components and between components and control gear within the board.
9. Cable carriers including trunking, trays, troughing, ladders, stop ends, bends, junctions, offsets, reducers, and similar items.
10. Cutting and jointing cable for carriers at fittings together with cutting or forming openings in cable carriers for conduits, entries from equipment and control gear and similar items, cradles, pinracks for supporting cables and similar items and suitable earthing.
11. Conduits laid in trench and fixed to building surfaces including fittings, junction boxes, special boxes (adaptable boxes, floor trap boxes and similar items) and fittings and fixing conduits to or through all building surfaces.
12. Cables drawn into conduits or ducts, drawn into trunking, laid in trunking, fixed to surfaces, laid in trench, fixed to isolators in overhead lines, suspended from catenary cables including all cable supports and fixings, providing draw wires, draw cables and similar items for drawing or hoisting cables.
13. Cable terminations, joints to main and sub-mains and line taps to generators, switchgear, appliances and similar items. Cable terminations are deemed to include for skinning ends of cables to expose conductors, cable termination glands, providing all insulating and jointing materials and other sundry items and all labour and connecting to terminals.
14. Conduit sleeves (including fire rated sleeves) in walls and floors.
15. Provide adequate fire rating to electrical penetrations through fire rated floors and walls to the complete satisfaction of the Local Authority.
16. Conduits and sub-circuits including conduit and cabling including all items listed for conduits, cables and conduit sleeves, all cable joints and skinning ends and connecting cables to switches, outlets, accessories, light fittings and similar items. Low voltage section such as bells, clocks, telephones, fire alarms, burglar alarms, load speakers, appliances and similar items.
17. Bus duct and bus ways including elbows, flanged ends, take-off boxes, tees, transformer taps, expansion fittings and similar items including all standard supports and brackets and similar items.
18. Earthing conductors including cables for earthing, test-clamps, and earth-electrodes.
19. Lightning conductors including earthing terminations, down conductors, air terminations, finials and bonding points and earthing points.
20. Switches, outlets and accessories (wired for 1-way, 2-way or intermediate switching) including all wall boxes and similar items (fire rated and non-fire rated as required).
21. Light fittings including lamps and diffusers where appropriate.
22. Identification including marking conduits, cables, equipment, switches, cable route markers and similar items with colour bands, tags, plates, badges and similar items.
23. Tools, spares, loose keys, racks for holding tools and similar items.
24. Supply and installation of electricity metres. The Subcontractor is responsible for the ordering, coordination, delivery, storage, security, installation and commissioning of the electricity metres.
25. The Contractors signage subcontractor will provide a certificate that the electronic signs are wired to the relevant Australian Standards. A terminal block will be provided by the Contractors signage subcontractor at the back of the electronic signage. Wiring from the distribution board to the signage, connection and commissioning is to be completed by the Subcontractor.
26. All equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply Authority and safety Authority requirements along with AS 3000.  All installation work is to be tested and approved by appropriate Authority as each proportion of the Works is commissioned.  Copies of Ready for Tests are to be submitted to the Contractor for his records.
27. Provide details and mark out any holes, required through the building structure to accommodate the electrical installation.
28. Coordination with the electricity network provider or the power supplier/Authority for provision of building power supply, metering and all associated costs.
29. All temporary cables must be segregated from the permanent wiring and marked with yellow iridescent tape. Relevant portions of the temporary wiring must also be enclosed in conduit in accordance with statutory Authority requirements.
30. Supply and installation of all conduits, junction boxes, blockouts and the like required to complete the Works and adequate protection of same against damage or displacement during pouring of concrete.

31. Backfill and compact all excavations and remove surplus spoil from Site.  Material used for backfilling to be approved by the Contractor.  Fully reinstate existing surfaces disturbed by excavations to the satisfaction of the Contractor.
32. Chase floors, walls, and soffits for cabling as approved by the Contractor.
33. Supply and install all fixings and supports for light fittings.  Support system installed shall be adequate for the item being supported.
34. Provide temporary three phase power if required to facilitate early testing and commissioning of the Head Contract Works including mechanical installations. If the permanent power is not connected in time, provide a temporary generator of sufficient capacity.
35. Provide tails of sufficient length and lugs for the termination of cables by the Contractors mechanical subcontractor.
36. Label all circuits and switchboards where required as the Works proceed.
37. Provide permanent lighting for painting and finishing trades.
38. Protect and waterproof all electrical risers as directed by the Contractor.
39. All external fixings to be, minimum, 316 grade stainless steel.
40. Provide the Contractor with a schedule listing all statutory signage required for the Works that the Subcontractor is supplying and installing.
41. The following work shall be carried out by the Subcontractor in installing white goods supplied by the Contractor:-
· Take receipt of the whitegoods when delivered and take to onsite storage area supplied by the Contractor.
· Take whitegoods from onsite storage area and deliver to various locations etc
· Unpack, clean up and remove all waste to bins provided by the Contractor.
· Install white goods, provide connections
· Trade clean of all labels and stickers
· Collate and provide all manuals, handbooks and guarantees into room lots, recording serial numbers and details as necessary
· Protect and accept responsibility until Practical Completion under the Head Contract

42. Items built into fire rated or acoustic rated walls, floors or ceilings shall be of the same category rating as the walls, floor or ceilings.

5.0 TESTING AND INSPECTIONS

6. The Subcontractor must ensure all necessary Site measurement is carried out prior to fabrication.
7. The Subcontractor will be responsible for the quantity of materials required for the project.
8. The Subcontractor shall supply all test certificates for applications, fixings and the like and as required to satisfy the Contractor or Client.
9. The Subcontractor should accept delivery and check condition of materials prior to installation.
10. The Subcontractor shall obtain certification from the manufacturers of each material and that the material is of correct grade, strength, size, specification etc.
6.0 PROCUREMENT

1. The Subcontractor must submit samples for approval prior to order being placed.
2. The Subcontractor is to provide detailed lead time durations for the supply of material.

7.0 MANUFACTURE, STORAGE AND MATERIALS HANDLING

1. All materials handling will be by the Subcontractor.
2. The Subcontractor must provide all trade specific handling equipment for movement and installation of their work. All equipment is to be certified by an Independent Engineer.
8.0 HANDOVER

1. The Subcontractor shall allow for all documentation, certification and the like as per contract documentation and specification to the satisfaction of the Contractor.
2. The Subcontractor has allowed for training of the Clients building manager in the usage and maintenance of the swimming pool and water features during the three months maintenance period allowed for under this Subcontract.
9.0 MAINTENANCE AND WARRANTIES

1. Provision of comprehensive Warranties fit for purpose, for periods outlined in the below schedule All warranties commence on the Date of Practical Completion.
2. All warranties are to be back to back from Subcontractor and manufacturer.


	Central Facilities
Warranties/Maintenance Schedule



Trade


Warranty
Period years)
	Preventative Maintenance Period

	Civil Works
	3
	Nil

	Termite Barriers
	10
	12 months

	Reinforced Concrete Structure
	7
	nil

	Structural Timber Framing
	7
	nil

	External & Internal Structural
Carpentry Items
	7

nil

	Carbon Fibre Purlins
	7
	nil

	Structural Steel Supply
	10
	nil

	Paint Finish of External & Internal
Structural Steel
	20

nil

	Steel Erection
	1
	nil

	Metal Roof/Gutters & Downpipes
Supply
	10

nil

	Metal Roof/Gutters & Downpipes
Install
	7

Nil

	Skylights
	7
	nil

	Kitchen Stainless Steel Work
	5
	Nil

	Kitchen Equipment Supply
	5
	Nil

	Kitchen Fridges/Coldrooms/Freezers
Panelling
	7

Nil

	Coldrooms/Freezers Plant Supply
Items
	1

Nil

	External Cladding
	7
	Nil

	Membrane Gutter
	20
	Nil

	Wet Area Membrane
	15
	Nil

	Metal Work
	7
	Nil

	Operable Walls
	5
	Nil

	WC Partitions
	7
	Nil

	Joinery
	7
	Nil

	Roof Safety Equipment
	15
	12 Months

	Doors & Door Frames Supply
	7
	Nil

	Aluminium Window Frames
	6
	Nil

	Glazing
	7
	Nil

	Aluminium Window Frame
Powdercoating
	15

Nil

	Door Hardware
	2
	Nil

	Plasterboard
	2
	Nil

	Ceramic Tiling
	7
	Nil

	Suspended Ceiling
	7
	Nil

	Carpet & Non Slip Flooring Supply
	7
	Nil

	Timber Flooring
	7
	Nil

	Caulking
	7
	Nil

	External Paint Finishes other than
Steelwork
	7

Nil

	Hydraulic Services Installation
	7
	12 months

	Rainwater Tanks Supply
	10
	12 months

	Sanitary ware & Taps
	2
	12 months


10.0 GENERAL CONDITIONS (ALL SUBCONTRACTORS):
1. BCA 2014 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
2. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority, concerning maximum noise levels, sedimentation control and control of dust.
3. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
4. The Subcontractor shall ensure that vehicles leaving the site do so in a condition that is in accordance with the Site Environmental Management Plan and EPA requirements.
5. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Contractor.
6. The Contractor will provide one datum and two set out points for the subcontractor to work off. No other surveying will be provided.
7. Supervision of all Works to the required standard by personnel licensed and registered as required by statutory regulations and to the satisfaction of the Contractor.
8. Coordination and installation of the Subcontract Works with all preceding and following trades.
9. The Subcontractor shall ensure all of the Subcontractor’s personnel are inducted into the Subcontractor’s safety plan and have undertaken training and are competent in all tasks and work procedures.
10. All Subcontractor personnel are to attend Site “toolbox talks” / safety briefs as required at the Contractor’s discretion (minimum 1 x weekly and as nominated in the Contractors Project Site Safety Plan.
11. All electrical equipment required to carry out these Works must carry tags in conformance with the Workplace Health and Safety Act which includes provisions for monthly checks on all electrical equipment.  Electrical registers to be supplied and maintained.
12. All mobile plant and equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply and safety Authority requirements and be maintained in a first class condition at all times.  The Subcontractor is to keep records of maintenance and provide records to the Contractor on request. Copies of last major service records and daily/weekly operator’s checklists to be supplied to the Contractor prior to use.
13. Supply all necessary material safety data sheets, risk assessments, safe work method statements and training records prior to commencement on Site.
14. It is mandatory Site requirement that, in addition to safety boots, hi-visibility clothing and hard hats, all employees are to wear long sleeve clothing whilst on Site.
15. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required for their work tasks.
16. The Subcontractor is to remove their own rubbish at the end of each day from the work area and place in bins provided by the Contractor. The Subcontractor shall empty rubbish into these bins on a regular basis The Subcontractor is responsible to provide their own wheelie bins to transport rubbish to Contractor supplied bins. The Subcontractor shall dispose of all waste material in an approved manner. No material whatsoever including building fittings and fixtures shall be disposed of in non-Contractor approved bins
17. Provide labourers, brooms, shovels, wheelbarrows/wheelie bins etc for regular Site clean ups at the request of the Contractor. Should the Subcontractor fail to adhere to regular Site cleanups, the Contractor will supply labour and equipment at the Subcontractor’s expense.
18. Provide an installation certificate in the form required by the Contractor certifying that the materials and workmanship installed in the Subcontract Works comply with:-
· The Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Australian Standards and good engineering practice covering the installation;
· The requirements of the Subcontract Documents and that the installation is suitable for the intended purpose;
· Completion of all defects and outstanding Works under the Subcontract.

11.0 EXCLUSIONS:
· CCTV
· Duress
· Supply of specialist supplier items
· Lightning strike protection to structure
· Telecommunications carrier pit and pipe system to the adjoining access road
· Supply of whitegoods
· Supply of audio cable
· PABX design and install


12.0 SUBCONTRACT SUM BREAKDOWN

	ITEM NO.
	SERVICE
	ALLOWANCE

	1.0
	Consumer Mains


	2.0
	Site MSB and CF MDB


	3.0
	Distribution Boards


	4.0
	Surge protection to switchboards


	5.0
	Submains


	6.0
	Cable Management (Internal Only)


	7.0
	Undergrounds


	8.0
	Lighting (BOH)


	9.0
	Lighting (Feature)


	10.0
	Emergency Lighting


	11.0
	Lighting Control (programmable)


	12.0
	Communications


	13.0
	Power


	14.0
	GPon fibre network including Cat6 cabling


	15.0
	Generator and fuel tank


	16.0
	AV cabling


	17.0
	Access Control System


	18.0
	MATV


	19.0
	Generator


	20.0
	Dry Fire System


	21.0
	PA System


	22.0
	Solar System


	23.0
	8 port KVM switch


	24.0
	UPS


	25.0
	Earthing


	26.0
	Cable Management Throughout Buildings 1,2,3,4 and underground for CCTV, Access Control and Duress


	27.0
	Surge Protection on CCTV Poles


	28.0
	Test and Commission



	TENDER TOTAL






