THE PROJECT
FENCE & GATE
SCOPE OF WORKS

Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a DESIGN AND CONSTRUCT subcontract and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant, tools and equipment necessary to document, shop draw, manufacture, deliver, install, certify and warrant the complete FENCING AND GATES required for a complete and functioning resort, fit for its purpose, In its entirety to drawings and Specifications and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practise, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities as generally described below including but not limited to:

The subcontractor is deemed to, but not limited to, have:
1. Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Contractor to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.
2. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
3.  Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
4. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.
INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW:
The project, Central Facilities is located on the site and will be the central hub for a two hundred, individual cabin, beach resort.

Central facilities consist of five separate buildings numbered one to five:

· Building 1 holds the pool café and bar, two multi purpose rooms and kitchen.
· Building 2 consist of the port-cochere, reception, foyer, restaurant, main kitchen, conference centre and admin offices.
· Building 3 is the day spa and gym.
· Building 4 is housekeeping.
· Building 5 is the pool plantroom.

Central Facilities also has a 1000m2 swimming pool and spa.
Buildings 1, 2 and 3 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground in a raft design
· Structural steel frame with composite purlins
· Aluminium framed glazing and doors
· Aluminium roofing

Building 4 and 5 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground
· Blockwork
· Steel frames and timber trusses
· Metal roof
DESCRIPTION OF WORK:
Fences and gates to Central Facilities and resort boundary including, but not limited to, supply and install Pool fence, boundary mesh fence, internal security fence, automatic gates and manual gates.

1. Provide all fence types accordance with the design, including but not limited to:
· F1 – Pool fence
· F3 – Boundary Fusion bonded mesh fence
· F5 – Speartop security fence
· F6 – Glass pool fence

2. Carry out all works to gates as required and described in the gate schedule “Gate Schedule Rev 3”.
3. Provide all miscellaneous items to complete the all fence and gate works as per the subcontract and “Fence & Gate scope mark-up drawings”.
4. The subcontractor will engineer and certify all standard fence systems including F1, F3, F5 and F6.
5. The Subcontractor takes full responsibility of the operation and the certification of all gates installed by the subcontractor even if the gate is supplied by others.
6. F1 – Pool fence as detailed by the landscape architect equivalent to a proprietary aluminium flat top pool fence. 1200 mm high, with aluminium posts 38 x 25mm and top & bottom rails with 16mm tube infill Including raking panels as required.
7. F3 - Mesh Fence with aluminium post 1800mm high colour black with 3mm Fusion Bonded Wire (design pattern per the landscape architect's drawings). Stay fittings HDG then powdercoated. Aluminium 77 x 77mm x 6.35mm end posts & stays & 51 x 51 x 3.0mm intermediate posts. Note the 300mm gap at bottom is to be confirmed by the Contractor where.
8. F5 - Security Fence 1800mm high, except where documented at 2400mm. Colour is the nominated grey. 65 x 65 posts (except the posts for gates with Electric Strikes), 25 x 25mm pickets crushed spear top with 40 x 40 rails.
9. F6 – Glass pool fence 1200mm glass pool fence as per the landscape architect's design.

10. All pool fencing supplied and installed by the subcontractor must comply with NSW pool fencing standards.
11. All powdercoating is to be the specified architectural powdercoat system.
12. Provide shop drawings for Gates 1A & B; 17,18 &19
13. Allow to coordinate with services trades for the operation of automatic gates.
14. Allow to co-ordinate with Pool installer.
15. The Subcontractor shall allow for all labour and supervision costs to work on a number of dedicated work fronts as requested by the Contractor to meet program requirements.
16. Provide all samples as required.
INCLUSIONS
1.0 INSURANCE
Provide Work Cover as per one of the below options:
1. NSW Work Cover Policy.
2. Written confirmation from Qcover that this specific project is covered for the duration of the works.
Provide Public Liability insurance valued at minimum $____.
2.0 PROGRAM
2.1 Contractor's Program
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that:
1. it has carefully reviewed the Contractors program or proposed program for the project; and
2. it is able to and shall perform its obligations consistently with any such program.
3. Liquidated Damages apply to this subcontract.
2.2 Amended Program
If the Contractor's program is updated, amended or replaced the Subcontractor shall take whatever action is necessary to perform its obligations consistently with any such program (without becoming obliged to accelerate the whole of the work under the Subcontract so as to bring forward the Date for Practical Completion). The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any Claim arising out of or in connection with the effects of the Contractor's program being updated, amended or replaced.  The Contractor does not warrant that the project or any other work will be carried out consistently with the Contractor's program.
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that it has a clear understanding of the allowances for delay made in the Contractor's program and has included in its program such delay allowances as it considers necessary. If any such allowances prove inadequate and/or actual delays exceed allowances, then the Subcontractor shall reduce the net duration of its activities accordingly and the Subcontractor has allowed for that reduction, without being entitled to any Claim.
2.3 Completion on Time
The Subcontractor shall achieve Practical Completion, of their work, by the Dates required by the Contractor.
2.4 Working days
Normal days for working onsite are Monday to Saturday and the Subcontractor has allowed for this in their tender. Working on Saturdays is compulsory for all trades.
3.0 STANDARD OF WORK AND PERFORMANCE
In addition to any other obligation, representation or warranty, whether statutory or otherwise, the Subcontractor shall to the satisfaction of the Contractor:
1. construct the Works in accordance with the Subcontract:
a) using best work practices; and
b) using materials described in the Subcontract conditions, or failing any specific description then of the best quality available which are fit for their intended purpose;
2. ensure that the Works during and after construction comply with all the requirements of or to be inferred from:
a) the Subcontract;
b) the requirements from time to time of the Building Code of Australia and all relevant statutes, codes, delegated legislation and codes published by the Standards Association of Australia; and
c) all relevant Authorities;
3. Exercise utmost good faith and full disclosure to the Contractor in performing its obligations under the Subcontract including without limitation when it makes claims for progress and other payments; and
4. Supply and execute items not expressly mentioned in the Subcontract but which are necessary or usual for work similar to the Works, without being entitled to any Claim.

4.0 TRADE SPECIFIC INCLUSIONS

1. Design, Supply, fabricate, deliver, unload, handle, hoist, install, certify and warrant the following fence and gate external work items in accordance with the Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Building Services Authority requirements, Building Code of Australia, Australian Standards and good building practice:-
· Footings for posts including concrete
· All fixings
· Sundry items
· F1
· F3
· F5
· F6
· Gates as per the “Gate Schedule Rev 3”
2. Protect surrounding building fences, neighbours properties from soil staining otherwise make good.
3. Site services – locate, identify existing site services before starting work.  Protect services, cap off.  Redirect as need be will be by the Contractor.  Ensure these services remain protected during the entire works.
4. Protect all finished paving and waterproof membranes from skid steer loaders, other machinery or anything else likely to cause damage.
5.0 TESTING AND INSPECTIONS

1. The Subcontractor must ensure all necessary Site measurement is carried out prior to fabrication.
2. The Subcontractor will be responsible for the quantity of materials required for the project.
3. The Subcontractor must accept delivery and check condition of materials prior to installation.
4. The Subcontractor shall obtain certification from the manufacturers of each material and that the material is of correct grade, strength, size, specification etc.
6.0 PROCUREMENT

1. The Subcontractor must submit samples for approval prior to order being placed.
2. The Subcontractor is to provide detailed lead time durations for the supply of material.

7.0 MANUFACTURE, STORAGE AND MATERIALS HANDLING

5. All materials handling will be by the Subcontractor.
6. The Subcontractor must provide all trade specific handling equipment for movement and installation of their work.
8.0 HANDOVER

1. The subcontractor shall allow for all documentation, certification and the like as per contract documentation and specification.
2. The subcontractor shall allow issuing a defects list prior to the Contractor performing their own final inspection.


9.0 MAINTENANCE AND WARRANTIES

1. Provision of comprehensive Warranties fit for purpose, for periods outlined in the below schedule All warranties commence on the Date of Practical Completion.
2. All warranties are to be back to back from Subcontractor and manufacturer.
Warranty Periods:
· Powdercoating –
· Automatic Gates –
· Fusion Bonded Wire –
· F1 – Pool fence –
· F5 – Security Fence –
· F6 - Glass Pool fence –
· Pool gates -

10.0 GENERAL CONDITIONS (ALL SUBCONTRACTORS):
1. BCA 2014 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
2. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority, concerning maximum noise levels, sedimentation control and control of dust.
3. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
4. The Subcontractor shall ensure that vehicles leaving the site do so in a condition that is in accordance with the Site Environmental Management Plan and EPA requirements.
5. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Contractor.
6. The Contractor will provide one datum and two set out points for the subcontractor to work off. No other surveying will be provided.
7. Supervision of all Works to the required standard by personnel licensed and registered as required by statutory regulations and to the satisfaction of the Contractor.
8. Coordination and installation of the Subcontract Works with all preceding and following trades.
9. The Subcontractor shall ensure all of the Subcontractor’s personnel are inducted into the Subcontractor’s safety plan and have undertaken training and are competent in all tasks and work procedures.
10. All Subcontractor personnel are to attend Site “toolbox talks” / safety briefs as required at the Contractor’s discretion (minimum 1 x weekly and as nominated in the Contractors Project Site Safety Plan.
11. All electrical equipment required to carry out these Works must carry tags in conformance with the Workplace Health and Safety Act which includes provisions for monthly checks on all electrical equipment.  Electrical registers to be supplied and maintained.
12. All mobile plant and equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply and safety Authority requirements and be maintained in a first class condition at all times.  The Subcontractor is to keep records of maintenance and provide records to the Contractor on request. Copies of last major service records and daily/weekly operator’s checklists to be supplied to the Contractor prior to use.
13. Supply all necessary material safety data sheets, risk assessments, safe work method statements and training records prior to commencement on Site.
14. It is mandatory Site requirement that, in addition to safety boots, hi-visibility clothing and hard hats, all employees are to wear long sleeve clothing whilst on Site.
15. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required for their work tasks.
16. The Subcontractor is to remove their own rubbish at the end of each day from the work area and place in bins provided by the Contractor. The Subcontractor shall empty rubbish into these bins on a regular basis The Subcontractor is responsible to provide their own wheelie bins to transport rubbish to Contractor supplied bins. The Subcontractor shall dispose of all waste material in an approved manner. No material whatsoever including building fittings and fixtures shall be disposed of in non-Contractor approved bins
17. Provide labourers, brooms, shovels, wheelbarrows/wheelie bins etc for regular Site clean ups at the request of the Contractor. Should the Subcontractor fail to adhere to regular Site cleanups, the Contractor will supply labour and equipment at the Subcontractor’s expense.
18. Provide an installation certificate in the form required by the Contractor certifying that the materials and workmanship installed in the Subcontract Works comply with:-
· The Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Australian Standards and good engineering practice covering the installation;
· The requirements of the Subcontract Documents and that the installation is suitable for the intended purpose;
· Completion of all defects and outstanding Works under the Subcontract.

11.0 EXCLUSIONS:
· Engineering to non-standard items
· Supply and install of laser cut panelling
· Supply and install of perspex
· Locking hardware to pool gates (except glass gates)
· Supply of aluminium frames for pool gates
· Loop sensors


12.0 SUBCONTRACT SUM BREAKDOWN

	Item #
	Description
	Qty
	Unit
	Value

	1. 
	Prelims/site set up
	1
	
	

	
	TOPSOIL:
	
	
	

	2. 
	Cultivation to turfed areas
	1
	
	

	3. 
	Topsoil to turfed areas
	1
	
	

	4. 
	Topsoil to planter beds (above ground level)
	1 
	
	

	
	PLANTING:
	 
	
	
	

	5. 
	Tubestock
	11011
	
	
	

	6. 
	75mm
	121
	
	
	

	7. 
	140mm pots
	1514
	
	
	

	8. 
	200mm pots
	2664
	
	
	

	9. 
	300mm pots
	341
	
	
	

	10. 
	25L bags ELAEOCARPUS reticulatus
	13
	
	
	

	11. 
	25L bags Pittosporum undulatum
	19
	
	
	

	12. 
	25L bags Stenocarpus sinuatus
	3
	
	
	

	13. 
	45L bags ELAEOCARPUS eumundi
	11
	
	
	

	14. 
	45L bags XANTHORRHOEA johnsonii
	6
	
	
	

	15. 
	100L bags SYZVGIUM francisii
	14
	
	
	

	16. 
	200L bags Acemena hemilampra
	10
	
	
	

	17. 
	200L bags Cupaniopsis anacardoides
	30
	
	
	

	18. 
	200L bags Davidsonia pruriens
	5
	
	
	

	19. 
	200L bags Flindersia schottiana
	20
	
	
	

	20. 
	200L bags Grevillea hiliana
	16
	
	
	

	21. 
	200L bags Melicope elleryana
	5
	
	
	

	22. 
	200L bags Pandanus pedunculatus
	2
	
	
	

	23. 
	Ex Ground Acemena hemilampra
	3
	
	
	

	24. 
	Ex Ground Cupaniopsis anacardoides
	3
	
	
	

	25. 
	Ex ground Hymenosporum flavum
	3
	
	
	

	26. 
	Ex ground Syzgium moorei
	7
	
	
	

	
	MULCH:
	 
	
	
	

	27. 
	Install site mulch
	 
	
	
	

	
	IRRIGATION SYSTEM:
	 
	
	
	

	28. 
	Supply and install irrigation system
	 
	
	
	

	
	TURF:
	 
	
	
	

	29. 
	Supply and lay turf
	 
	
	
	

	
	EDGING:
	 
	
	
	

	30. 
	E1 - Edge type 1
	 
	
	
	

	
	PAVEMENTS:
	 
	
	
	

	31. 
	PT5 - Pavement type 5
	 
	
	
	

	32. 
	PT7 - Pavement type 7
	 
	
	
	

	33. 
	PT10a - Pavement type 10a
	 
	
	
	

	34. 
	PT10b - Pavement type 10b
	 
	
	
	

	
	WALL TYPES:
	 
	
	
	

	35. 
	WLT-3 Wall type 3
	 
	
	
	

	36. 
	WLT-4 Wall type 4
	 
	
	
	

	37. 
	GW-1 Green Wall type 1
	 
	
	
	

	
	FURNITURE:
	 
	
	
	

	38. 
	BG-1 Pool side bungalows
	 
	
	
	

	39. 
	SR - proprietary hanging lounger
	 
	
	
	

	40. 
	BK-1 Bike rack type 1
	 
	
	
	

	41. 
	B1 - Bollard type 1
	 
	
	
	

	
	 
	 
	
	
	

	42. 
	Maintenance
	 
	
	
	




13. AGREED SUBCONTRACT RATES

	Item #
	Description
	Unite
	Rate

	1. 
	Labour rate
	Hourly
	

	2. 
	Supply and place topsoil
	M3
	

	3. 
	Supply and place mulch
	M3
	

	4. 
	Watering during construction (excludes water)
	Hourly
	





