THE PROJECT
FLOOR AND WALL TILING
SCOPE OF WORKS


Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a design and construct subcontract and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant, tools and equipment necessary to design, document, manufacture, deliver,  install and certify the complete FLOOR AND WALL TILING works required for complete and functioning buildings, fit for there purpose, In its entirety to drawings and Specifications and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practice, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities as generally described below including but not limited to:
The following Clauses shall be read in conjunction with the drawings and specifications, available on the Contractors document register website (FTP) and other relevant documents which make up this subcontract to ascertain the total works. Where there are discrepancies, between Architectural, Structural and Subcontractor shop drawings the Architectural drawings will take precedence, followed by shop drawings.

The Subcontractor is deemed to but not limited to:
1. Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Contractor to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.
2. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
3.  Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
4. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.
GENERAL INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW OF PROJECT:
The project, Central Facilities is located on the site and will be the central hub for a two hundred, individual cabin, beach resort.

Central facilities consist of five separate buildings numbered one to five:

· Building 1 holds the pool café and bar, two multi purpose rooms and kitchen.
· Building 2 consist of the port-cochere, reception, foyer, restaurant, main kitchen, conference centre and admin offices.
· Building 3 is the day spa and gym.
· Building 4 is housekeeping.
· Building 5 is the pool plantroom.

Central Facilities also has a 1000m2 swimming pool and spa.
Buildings 1, 2 and 3 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground in a raft design
· Structural steel frame with composite purlins
· Aluminium framed glazing and doors
· Aluminium roofing

Building 4 and 5 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground
· Blockwork
· Steel frames and timber trusses
· Metal roof

PROJECT TRADE SPECIFIC EXTENT OF WORKS:
The scope of work includes but is not limited to the following principal areas: -
1. The Subcontractor to provide full specification of tiling systems including, topping/screed, primer, adhesive, grout, sealer etc. to ensure a fully cohesive system which will enable a supplier backed warranty to be issued by the Subcontractor. All systems must be cohesive with the waterproofing supplier's membranes who are supplying all waterproof membrane systems. The Subcontractors designed tiling system is attached in this subcontract
2. The Subcontractor to supply and install topping/screed to all external and wet areas.
3. The Subcontractor to move tiles to designated rooms. The builder to provide a telehandler for heavy lift.
4. The Subcontractor to Direct stick all internal CT1 tiles to slab on ground including any necessary preparation to slab.
5. The Subcontractor to coordinate all tiling to joinery units with Joinery subcontractor. Including ensuring correct substrates to apply tiles.
6. The Subcontractor to provide and fix coreflute to internal floor tiles CT1 and CT5.
7. The Subcontractor to tile to areas shown on approved mark up of drawings.
8. The Subcontractor to Install expansion joints as per Australian Standards. The subcontractor has allowed 3mm to external paving tiles. Locations of expansion joints to be approved by the builder prior to tile laying.
9. The floor wastes are to be align centrally on tile joints, unless the builder approve in a different position
10. It is the Subcontractors responsibility to ensure quantities designated for specific sites are correct to complete job including spare tiles to be left at completion, if tiling has started and there is not enough tiles to complete site it will be the sub contractors responsibility to ensure same batch can be matched to complete house
11. The Subcontractor has allowed to tile under joinery that does not have a plinth.
12. The Subcontractor is to ensure flanges are in place prior to tiling.
13. The Subcontractor is to wash tools in designated “Wash out Bay”.
14. The Subcontractor is to material handle the tiles from the nearest entry to the buildings.
15. The Subcontractor is to mitre corners in lieu of the aluminium angle.
16. The Subcontractor to apply the specified premium cementitious grout to external swimming pool area R12 inside the pool fence including steps. The Subcontractor is to ensure they have received the builder’s approval to proceed with product prior.
17. The Subcontractor has allowed for epoxy grout to floors and walls as specified (excluding commercial kitchen and pizza bar floors).
18. The Subcontractor is to provide a sample on the external tiles and sample of the Hexagon floor tiles to Building 3, for approval by the builder, prior to proceeding.
19. The Subcontractor is to ensure he has allowed for 4mm grout and expansion joints to CT1, CT 5 and CT11, in grids nominated from the builder. Obtain approval from the builder prior to proceeding.
20. The Subcontractor is to ensure mould resistant caulking and grout is used
21. The Subcontractor to ensure the R12 tiles laid in the nominated
22. The Subcontractor to be careful with offcuts and store appropriately, so the don’t get damaged
23. The Subcontractor has allowed to tile as per marked up drawings

GENERAL TRADE SPECIFIC EXTENT OF WORKS:

1. Cull and sort tiles for colour matching and quality prior to fixing in place.
2. Waste plugs are to be temporarily installed in floor wastes to ensure bedding and grout are not emptied into floor wastes.
3. Complete all floor and wall tiling to the areas as noted in accordance with the specification and finishes schedule, including all temporary rules, temporary grounds, temporary screed and the like, all normal bedding and pointing materials, cleaning down and making good around pipes, sanitary pipes, built in joinery and the like, and cutting and waste.
4. Provide all materials necessary to complete the tiling works in a professional manner including but not limited to grout, bedding material, glue compatible with waterproofing compound, caulking, jointing material etc.
5. Supply and fixing of all necessary aluminium angles and edge strips at door thresholds bounding areas of tiling, dis-similar tiles and floor coverings including carpeted areas. Top of angle is to finish flush with tiles.
6. The sub contractor is to advise the Contractors Representative if any defects occur in the waterproofing prior to bedding and or tiling of areas
7. Supply and installation of all bedding to bathroom set downs to ensure correct falls to wet areas including water testing after completing tiling. Failure to provide correct falls will result in tiles being taken up and re-laid at the Subcontractors expense.
8. Subcontractor to provide all slip test reports required as specified.
9. Coordinate tiling works with the installation to surface mounted items and provide for all fixings for all surface mounted items, built in items and plates, wastes etc.
10. Install and form all horizontal and vertical expansion joints and the like necessary for the works, through tile pattern and topping/screed, including backing rod and silicon sealants including floor / wall and corner expansion joints as necessary for the long term life and satisfactory maintenance of the works. Ensure total compatibility of silicon sealants with tile adhesive and grout to avoid chemical reaction and discolouring.
11. Provide silicon jointing to all horizontal and vertical internal corners of wall tiling and at junctions between wall tiles and floor finishes, door frames, bench tops, joinery units, ceiling finishes, thresholds, fixtures and fittings. This must be carried out to the satisfaction of the Contractor and Architect on completion. Works must be of a high quality finish.
12. Witnessing water testing of membranes and taking responsibility for the integrity of the membrane during tiling works.  Should the membrane leak as a result of damage it shall be assumed such damage was a result of tiling operations and all costs of making good and consequential damage will be, solely, at the Subcontractors expense.
13. All tiling work shall be carried out in accordance with the Australian Standards, Local Authority requirements and the BCA.  Should any of these requirements be in conflict with the specification the Contractor will be notified immediately, prior to any installation. Failure to notify the Contractor about possible conflicts which result in re-works will be the responsibility of the Subcontractor including all associated cost.
14. Carry out any necessary removal of water or drying out of substrates.
15. All bedding/toppings must be allowed to cure prior to laying tiles as per Australian Standards and suppliers specification. QA documentation must be provided, to the Contractor, proving necessary curing time prior to laying tiles. If evidence of curing time cannot be provided then, on instruction from the Contractor, tiles may need to be removed and re-laid at the expense of the Subcontractor.
16. All external toppings/screeds must be bonded to substrate. Bonding method must be specified by supplier and be able to warranted by both Subcontractor and materials supplier.
17. Inspect all walls for plumb and straightness prior to fixing tiles. Commencement of fixing shall be deemed as acceptance of the substrate.
18. Checking and planning of joint placement particularly dissimilar background materials i.e. blockwork and concrete substructure is the responsibility of the Subcontractor. All expansion joints locations must be approved by the Contractor.
19. Subcontractor to protect finished works and is responsible for completed works until completion. Prevent walking on or contact with floor & wall tiles for a minimum of 7 No. days.
20. Protect all adjacent surfaces during tiling operations.  All waste material particularly grout material shall be removed to designated bins. No waste is to be washed down drains. Any tiling material found in wastes and drains will be removed at the Subcontractors expense.
21. Trade cleaning including removal of finger marks, grease, excessive adhesives, etc to the complete satisfaction of the Contractor.
22. Allow to coordinate with all other trades as may be required.
23. Subcontractor is to provide supervision on site at all times, whilst carrying out works. The Subcontractors supervisor must be able to communicate with fluent English.
24. The Subcontractor shall at the time of receipt of any items supplied by the Contractor advise the Main Contractor of any incorrect deliveries or items in order to minimise delays to the Construction Programme.


GENERAL INCLUSIONS:
INSURANCE
Provide Work Cover as per one of the below options:
1. NSW Work Cover Policy.
2. Written confirmation from Qcover that this specific project is covered for the duration of the works.
DESIGN
The Subcontractor is to provide a complete tiling specification from a supplier which includes adheives, grout, corking, sealer etc.
PROGRAM
Contractor's Program
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that:
1. it has carefully reviewed the Principals program or proposed program for the project; and
2. it is able to and shall perform its obligations consistently with any such program.
Amended Program
If the Principal's program is updated, amended or replaced the Subcontractor shall take whatever action is necessary to perform its obligations consistently with any such program (without becoming obliged to accelerate the whole of the work under the Subcontract so as to bring forward the Date for Practical Completion). The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any Claim arising out of or in connection with the effects of the Principal's program being updated, amended or replaced.  The Contractor does not warrant that the project or any other work will be carried out consistently with the Principal's program.
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that it has a clear understanding of the allowances for delay made in the Principal's program and has included in its program such delay allowances as it considers necessary. If any such allowances prove inadequate and/or actual delays exceed allowances, then the Subcontractor shall reduce the net duration of its activities accordingly and the Subcontractor has allowed for that reduction, without being entitled to any Claim.
SAMPLES
1. Subcontractor to provide a 1m2 sample panel of each type of floor and wall tiling for approval. This will then become the workmanship standard for the project.

MANUFACTURE, STORAGE AND MATERIALS HANDLING

1. All materials handling will be by the Subcontractor.
2. The Subcontractor must provide all trade specific handling equipment for movement and installation of their work. All equipment is to be certified by an Independent Engineer.
3. There is minimum storage of materials onsite. Subcontractor is to provide all necessary storage as required at no cost to the Contractor.
HANDOVER
1. The Subcontractor shall allow for all documentation, certification and the like as per contract documentation and specification to the satisfaction of the Contractor prior to Practical Completion.
MAINTENANCE AND WARRANTIES
1. Provision of comprehensive Warranties fit for purpose, for period as required by the below Warranties/Maintenance Schedule. All warranties commence on the Date of Practical Completion for the Head Contract.
2. The Subcontractor is to allow maintenance for a period of 12 months commencing practical completion of the project for defects liability period.

	Central Facilities
Warranties/Maintenance Schedule



Trade


Warranty
Period years)
	Preventative Maintenance Period

	Ceramic Tiling
	7
	Nil

	Caulking
	7
	Nil




GENERAL CONDITIONS (ALL SUBCONTRACTORS):
25. BCA 2014 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
26. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority, concerning maximum noise levels, sedimentation control and control of dust.
27. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
28. The Subcontractor shall ensure that vehicles leaving the site do so in a condition that is in accordance with the Site Environmental Management Plan and EPA requirements.
29. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Contractor.
30. The Contractor will provide one datum and two set out points for the subcontractor to work off. No other surveying will be provided.
31. Supervision of all Works to the required standard by personnel licensed and registered as required by statutory regulations and to the satisfaction of the Principal.
32. Coordination and installation of the Subcontract Works with all preceding and following trades.
33. The Subcontractor shall ensure all of the Subcontractor’s personnel are inducted into the Subcontractor’s safety plan and have undertaken training and are competent in all tasks and work procedures.
34. All Subcontractor personnel are to attend Site “toolbox talks” / safety briefs as required at the Principal’s discretion (minimum 1 x weekly and as nominated in the Principals Project Site Safety Plan.
35. All electrical equipment required to carry out these Works must carry tags in conformance with the Workplace Health and Safety Act which includes provisions for monthly checks on all electrical equipment.  Electrical registers to be supplied and maintained.
36. All mobile plant and equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply and safety Authority requirements and be maintained in a first class condition at all times.  The Subcontractor is to keep records of maintenance and provide records to the Contractor on request. Copies of last major service records and daily/weekly operator’s checklists to be supplied to the Contractor prior to use.
37. Supply all necessary material safety data sheets, risk assessments, safe work method statements and training records prior to commencement on Site.
38. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required for their work tasks.
39. The Subcontractor is to remove their own rubbish at the end of each day from the work area and place in bins provided by the Principal. The Subcontractor shall empty rubbish into these bins on a regular basis The Subcontractor is responsible to provide their own wheelie bins to transport rubbish to Contractor supplied bins. The Subcontractor shall dispose of all waste material in an approved manner. No material whatsoever including building fittings and fixtures shall be disposed of in non-Contractor approved bins
40. Provide labourers, brooms, shovels, wheelbarrows/wheelie bins etc for regular Site clean ups at the request of the Principal. Should the Subcontractor fail to adhere to regular Site lean-ups, the Contractor will supply labour and equipment at the Subcontractor’s expense.
41. Provide an installation certificate in the form required by the Contractor certifying that the materials and workmanship installed in the Subcontract Works comply with:-
· The Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Australian Standards and good engineering practice covering the installation;
· The requirements of the Subcontract Documents and that the installation is suitable for the intended purpose;
· Completion of all defects and outstanding Works under the Subcontract.

EXCLUSIONS:

· Pool coping supply and install
· Pool wet deck tile supply and install
· Spa tiling supply and install
· Supply of Tiles
· Waterproofing
· Pizza Bar and Commercial Kitchen wall and floor tiles





