THE PROJECT
ALUMINIUM WINDOWS AND DOORS
SCOPE OF WORKS


Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a design and construct subcontract and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant, tools and equipment necessary to design, document, manufacture, deliver,  install and certify the complete ALUMINIUM WINDOWS AND DOORS WORK required for complete and functioning buildings, fit for there purpose, In its entirety to drawings and Specifications and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practice, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities as generally described below including but not limited to:
The following Clauses shall be read in conjunction with the drawings and specifications, available on the Contractors document register website (FTP) and other relevant documents which make up this subcontract to ascertain the total works. Where there are discrepancies, between Architectural, Structural and Subcontractor shop drawings the Architectural drawings will take precedence, followed by shop drawings.

The Subcontractor is deemed to but not limited to:
1. Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Contractor to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.
2. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
3.  Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
4. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.
INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW:
The project, Central Facilities is located on the site and will be the central hub for a two hundred, individual cabin, beach resort.

Central facilities consist of five separate buildings numbered one to five:

· Building 1 holds the pool café and bar, two multi purpose rooms and kitchen.
· Building 2 consist of the port-cochere, reception, foyer, restaurant, main kitchen, conference centre and admin offices.
· Building 3 is the day spa and gym.
· Building 4 is housekeeping.
· Building 5 is the pool plantroom.

Central facilities also has a 1000m2 swimming pool and spa.
Buildings 1, 2 and 3 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground in a raft design
· Structural steel frame with composite purlins
· Aluminium framed glazing and doors
· Aluminium roofing

Building 4 and 5 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground
· Blockwork
· Steel frames and timber trusses
· Metal roof

DESCRIPTION OF WORK AREA:
The scope of work includes but is not limited to the following principal areas: -
Shop draw, manufacture, apply protective coating, transport, install and certify all aluminium windows, frames for louvers, fixed glass louvers and doors for buildings 1 to 4.

SPECIFIC INCLUSIONS
INSURANCE
Provide Work Cover as per one of the below options:
1. NSW Work Cover Policy.
2. Written confirmation from Qcover that this specific project is covered for the duration of the works.
DESIGN
1. The Subcontractor shall provide design documents including but not limited to, Shop Drawings, to the Contractor for approval prior to the installation of the works.
2. The Subcontractor shall provide technical support, liaison and coordinate with the design team as required.
3. The Subcontract is to provide a certification that the design and installation complies to Australian Standards.
4. The Subcontractor shall verify and confirm all “as built” dimensions and measurements and set out on site for all floor and support RL’s, Allow for normal structural and other construction tolerances.
5. The Subcontractor is to comply with all relevant Australian Standards, Building Codes and relevant Authority Requirements.
Shop Drawings Detailer
1. Provide and make all necessary allowances for co-ordinating all the Architectural and Structural consultants and other specialist Principal/ Suppliers elements in preparation of the shop drawings and subsequent fabrication and installation.
2. The Shop Detailer shall take into account the Architectural and Service requirements, and all drawings produced shall be submitted to the Contractor for approval.
3. A program shall be provided by the fabricator clearly detailing durations for the following:
· Shop drawing drafting
· Consultant review period
· AFC documentation
· Fabrication lead time
· Paint applicator lead time

4. The Shop Detailer has allowed for all work associated with Requests for Information (RFI’s).  The Shop Detailer has allowed for all necessary RFI’s.  No variations will be issued for RFI’s in connection with this or for any co-ordination of other trade designs.

5. Submit for approval all shop drawings and schedules to satisfy the Principal’s program requirements and allow for re-submission if amendments are required
6. Provide all shop drawings and schedules in PDF and DWG electronic format to ensure compatibility with consultants. All drawings will be loaded up as PDF & DWG onto the Principals web based documentation management system by the Principal.
7. The Detailer shall allow for coordination as necessary to clarify details, improve the build ability or a general improvement in the finished product.
8. On completion of the erection, the shop drawings shall be amended to correct any errors which have become apparent during the erection and to incorporate modifications made during the erection.  An electronic copy of the altered ‘as built’ drawings shall be submitted as part of a specific O & M manual for the scope of the works.
9. The Detailer will be required to attend meetings on site as requested by the Principal. The Subcontractor has allowed for the attendance of such meetings in the lump sum price.
PROGRAM
Contractor's Program
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that:
1. it has carefully reviewed the Principals program or proposed program for the project; and
2. it is able to and shall perform its obligations consistently with any such program.
Amended Program
If the Principal's program is updated, amended or replaced the Subcontractor shall take whatever action is necessary to perform its obligations consistently with any such program (without becoming obliged to accelerate the whole of the work under the Subcontract so as to bring forward the Date for Practical Completion). The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any Claim arising out of or in connection with the effects of the Principal's program being updated, amended or replaced.  The Contractordoes not warrant that the project or any other work will be carried out consistently with the Principal's program.
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that it has a clear understanding of the allowances for delay made in the Principal's program and has included in its program such delay allowances as it considers necessary. If any such allowances prove inadequate and/or actual delays exceed allowances, then the Subcontractor shall reduce the net duration of its activities accordingly and the Subcontractor has allowed for that reduction, without being entitled to any Claim.
Completion on Time
The Subcontractor shall achieve Practical Completion by the Date for Practical Completion.
TESTING, INSPECTIONS AND WARRANTIES

1. Bi-folds with only a bottom channel (no standard sill with rebate) are not covered under warranty for parts, water penetration and dust and dirt penetration.
2. There is a 12 month warranty on consumables (eg. Locks and rollers) and a 6 year warranty on frames.
3. Powdercoating to all frames are supplied with a 15 year supplier backed warranty.
4. The Subcontractor shall supply all test certificates for applications, fixings and the like and as required to satisfy the Contractor or Client.
5. The Subcontractor should accept delivery and check condition of materials prior to installation.
6. The Subcontractor shall obtain certification from the manufacturers of each material and that the material is of correct grade, strength, size, etc.
MANUFACTURE, STORAGE AND MATERIALS HANDLING

1. All materials handling will be by the Subcontractor.
2. The Subcontractor must provide all trade specific handling equipment for movement and installation of their work. All equipment is to be certified by an Independent Engineer.
INSTALLATION

1. All frames are to be powdercoated with the specified architectural powdercoat system and be accompanied by a 15 year warranty from the powdercoat supplier.
2. Aluminium flashings to cover steel in between frame changes with either flat cover plates or angles. In the instance where the frames go from a 225 below to a 100 above steel is wrapped in aluminium prior to sub sills and heads installed.
3. Angles to mullions adjacent structure for waterproofing and sealing.
4. Protection of door frames post installation.
5. Window systems/Bi-Fold doors (without the window system supplier's standard sill detail)/Hinged doors are to the window system supplier's Specification.
6.  Fabrication, Supply and Installation of all works including cutting, bracing, bolting, riveting, drilling, countersinking, welding, grinding joints off flush, filling and also marking, delivery, unloading, handling, hoisting to levels, fitting, fixing, and cleaning free from loose scale and touching up surface treatments where damaged on site all as specified.
7. Include for fabrication using powdercoated aluminium members, conforming to the approved standard details and Australian Standards, for fixing in position complete with all packings, fixing clips and brackets, fastenings, expansion joints, weather seals, and for providing and fixing all integral sub-frames, cover plates, trims or moulds and for all necessary sealants.
8. Allowance to be made for prefinishing aluminium, shadow box assemblies, glass and glazing, hinges, locks and hardware, fixings, packers and fixing plates, all flashings, sealants, caulking, weather seals, weather bars, trims, cover plates and the like as specified on Drawings and specifications.
9. Glass and glazing shall be in accordance with AS1288 and include for all labour and materials in bedding and fixing including taking off and refixing glazing beds, snap-in beads, materials, priming all rebates, foam rubber backing, neoprene gasket spacers, sprigs, pins, etc. Splaying off, straight cutting, trimming and for cleaning glass.
10. Allowance to be made for safety markings and motifs.
11. Supply and install fully weathered horizontal & vertical expansion joints to allow for thermal movement in joints and fastenings.
12. Supply and installation of all separation strips between different materials subject to electrolysis where necessary and as required.
13. Include for all fixed glass louvers. All fixed glass louver windows to have mesh to comply with BAL12.5.
14. Supply & install all acoustic seals as required to Aluminium framed doors and windows as per specification and drawings.
15. Supply and installation of all smoke and fire seals/proofing.
16. Provide detailed shop drawings for approval all in accordance with the drawings.
17. Provide samples of all sections, joints, hardware, finishes and sill details for review and approval.
18. Sample / prototype installation will be required for each system for review and approval.
19. Allow for transportation, delivery, on site storage as necessary, all horizontal movement of stock and coordination of with the Contractors personnel.
20. Include supply and installation of angles, sealants in order to achieve a water tight finish.  Any fixings going through water proof membranes must be adequately sealed.
21. Supply and install all architectural door and window hardware as specified to aluminium framed windows and doors detailed. Provide final cylinders and keys as required for each door and operable window.
22. Site measure all works prior to fabrication.
23. Pre-cut materials wherever possible to reduce handling and wastage prior to deliver on site
24. Confirm all structural elements or architectural elements required but shown to complete your package.
25. Motifs to all glazing and the like to windows and doors to clearly identify it in accordance with standard safe practices.
26. Trade clean all items prior handover which include removing installation markings.
27. Provision of adequate supervision of the works and checking of all work carried out by others likely to affect the installation.
28. Provide ‘As Built’ drawings prior to practical completion as documented in Architectural Specification.
29. Execute the works in the sequence required by the Contractor and allowance for minor breaks in continuity in accordance with the Contractors Program.
30. Have in place a quality assurance system to meet both the requirements of the Contractor and that of the Architectural Specification.
31. The site is a 6 day workplace.  It is the Subcontractors responsibility to supply all labour as necessary to meet the construction programme.
32. Provision of all equipment required to carry out the works in accordance with all statutory OHS requirements.
33. Carry out all works in strict accordance with the relevant Australian Standards and Authority requirements.
34. The Subcontractor must allow for the provision, installation, maintenance, de-commissioning and removal from site all access equipment. All equipment must be in accordance with the approved safety plan.
35. The Subcontractor shall allow for all labour and supervision costs to work on a number of dedicated work fronts as requested by the Contractors Program requirements.
36. The Contractor will provide gridlines one Eastern and one Northern and a benchmark RL for each building. The Subcontractor shall be responsible for all survey and set out from these points.
37. In the event that works are damaged by another trade, the Subcontractor must attempt to resolve costs for the rectification works directly with the trade which damaged the works.  If this has been unsuccessful, the Subcontractor may request the Contractor assistance to resolve the matter.
38. The Subcontractor shall allow for a full time supervisor to attend all meetings.
39. The Subcontractor shall allow for all rubbish to be placed in the bins provided.
HANDOVER
1. The Subcontractor shall allow for all documentation, certification and the like as per contract documentation and specification to the satisfaction of the Contractor.
2. The Subcontractor has allowed for training of the Clients building manager in the usage and maintenance of glazing systems.
MAINTENANCE AND WARRANTIES
1. Provision of comprehensive Warranties fit for purpose, for period of six (6) years. All warranties commence on the Date of Practical Completion for the Head Contract.
GENERAL CONDITIONS (ALL SUBCONTRACTORS):
1. BCA 2014 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
2. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority, concerning maximum noise levels, sedimentation control and control of dust.
3. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
4. The Subcontractor shall ensure that vehicles leaving the site do so in a condition that is in accordance with the Site Environmental Management Plan and EPA requirements.
5. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Contractor.
6. The Contractor will provide one datum and two set out points for the subcontractor to work off. No other surveying will be provided.
7. Supervision of all Works to the required standard by personnel licensed and registered as required by statutory regulations and to the satisfaction of the Principal.
8. Coordination and installation of the Subcontract Works with all preceding and following trades.
9. The Subcontractor shall ensure all of the Subcontractor’s personnel are inducted into the Subcontractor’s safety plan and have undertaken training and are competent in all tasks and work procedures.
10. All Subcontractor personnel are to attend Site “toolbox talks” / safety briefs as required at the Principal’s discretion (minimum 1 x weekly and as nominated in the Principals Project Site Safety Plan.
11. All electrical equipment required to carry out these Works must carry tags in conformance with the Workplace Health and Safety Act which includes provisions for monthly checks on all electrical equipment.  Electrical registers to be supplied and maintained.
12. All mobile plant and equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply and safety Authority requirements and be maintained in a first class condition at all times.  The Subcontractor is to keep records of maintenance and provide records to the Contractor on request. Copies of last major service records and daily/weekly operator’s checklists to be supplied to the Contractor prior to use.
13. Supply all necessary material safety data sheets, risk assessments, safe work method statements and training records prior to commencement on Site.
14. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required for their work tasks.
15. The Subcontractor is to remove their own rubbish at the end of each day from the work area and place in bins provided by the Principal. The Subcontractor shall empty rubbish into these bins on a regular basis The Subcontractor is responsible to provide their own wheelie bins to transport rubbish to Contractor supplied bins. The Subcontractor shall dispose of all waste material in an approved manner. No material whatsoever including building fittings and fixtures shall be disposed of in non-Contractor approved bins
16. Provide labourers, brooms, shovels, wheelbarrows/wheelie bins etc for regular Site clean ups at the request of the Principal. Should the Subcontractor fail to adhere to regular Site lean-ups, the Contractor will supply labour and equipment at the Subcontractor’s expense.
17. Provide an installation certificate in the form required by the Contractor certifying that the materials and workmanship installed in the Subcontract Works comply with:-
· The Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Australian Standards and good engineering practice covering the installation;
· The requirements of the Subcontract Documents and that the installation is suitable for the intended purpose;
· Completion of all defects and outstanding Works under the Subcontract.

EXCLUSIONS:

· Membranes to openings
· Protection to glazing post install
· Survey grids and height datum’s
· Perimeter scaffolding
· Aluminium louvers



SUBCONTRACT SUM BREAKDOWN

	ITEM NO.
	DESCRIPTION
	SUBCONTRACT VALUE

	
	
	

	
	Building 1
	

	1.0
	Aluminium windows and doors
	$____

	
	
	

	
	Building 2a
	

	1.0
	Aluminium windows and doors
	$____

	
	
	

	
	Building 2b
	

	1.0
	Aluminium windows and doors
	$____

	
	
	

	
	Building 3
	

	1.0
	Aluminium windows and doors
	$____

	
	
	

	
	Building 4
	

	1.0
	Aluminium windows and doors
	$____

	
	
	

	
	Design Fees
	$____

	
	
	

	
	Architectural powdercoating to all frames
	$____

	
	
	

	
	Supply door hardware (hardware supplier)
	$____

	
	
	

	
	TOTAL Excl GST
	$____





