THE PROJECT
HOSPITALITY TECHNOLOGY CONSULTANCY
SCOPE OF WORKS


Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a Project Management Consultancy and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour and resources necessary to design, document and certify the OVERVIEW AND PROCUREMENT OF SYSTEMS AND SERVICES, INCLUDING TRAINING AND ALL CO-ORDINATION required to construct and complete the project fit for its purpose, In its entirety to drawings and Specifications and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Clients Requirements, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practise, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities and as generally described below but not limited to:
The subcontractor is deemed to, but not limited to, have:
1. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
1.  Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
1. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Subcontract.
INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW:
The project is a large scale architecturally designed beachside eco-resort / tourist facility consisting of central and recreational facilities ( catering for functions, events and conferencing), a 193 accommodation product (to be developed in multiple stages) and ancillary tourist uses, located on the site. Stage one of the development will comprise the central facilities, 95 cabins/villas (104 keys) to be held in single ownership with the ability for future strata subdivision, and future accommodation stages with strata capability to be expanded from this central hub to form future stage(s).
The Central Resort and Conference Facilities (Central Facilities) comprise a porte cochere, foyer, reception, administration and operations office, restaurant and bar (internal and external dining areas), a pizza bar, DOSA, poolside café / bar with outdoor dining, multi-purpose rooms, conference rooms, commercial kitchen, washroom facilities, lagoon swimming pool and hot tub, storage and servicing areas, 5 room spa and reception, back-of-house servicing areas, pool plant room, gymnasium and an external poolside fire pit area. The Conference facilities will be versatile to cater for a variety of weddings, conferences and functions of varying sizes concurrently, and will cater for connection to the adjoining event space. The resort will be operational 24/7 365 days of the year and the design, function of the resort is to take this into consideration in developing the documents and operation manuals. The final design must consider the final staff numbers. The proposed staff numbers are currently 50.
Accommodation stage 1 (104 keys with capability for strata titling) will be serviced through the resort central facilities area, and future communication provisioning must be made where necessary for the expansion of stage two of an additional strata titled circa 100 accommodation product. It is acknowledged that the Central Facilities and the accommodation product collectively form the resort and are reliant on one another for operations.

DESCRIPTION OF SCOPE:
· The project, Stage 1 only
· As per consultant documents provided:
· Consultant Proposal – ____
· Consultant Hospitality Technology Operation Map drawing ____.
· Consultant Matrix of Technologies - drawing ____
· The consultant is to assist the client to complete their brief of Hospitality requirements and then to novate and document the brief supplied by the client to each of the agreed team of existing and “to be appointed” subcontractors and vendors (some through appointment by the builder and others to be engaged directly by the client) to ensure minimal “Overlap & Underlap”.
· Design overview in conjunction with the builder and procurement of systems and services in conjunction with the builder and the client, including training and all co-ordination, as shown on Hospitality Technology Operation Map drawing ____.
· The Subcontractor is appointed to overview the project from the perspective of Hospitality Technology, from top to bottom, starting with the Operator requirements including services carriage to the site and all the way through to the delivery of services to the in room Guest (Door locking, Room control/ BMS, Guest Entertainment, TVs and content and Guest Interface to the TV, High Speed Internet for the guests – and Administration, telephone etc etc).

SPECIFIC INCLUSIONS:
1. Insurances
The Subcontractor is to provide full:
a) Professional Indemnity valued at $____; and
b) Public liability valued at $____; and
c) Work Cover.

2. Design Obligation
The Subcontractor shall carry out and complete the design of the Works referred to in this scope. The Subcontractor represents and warrants, in addition to any other representation or warranty given or obligations assumed, that the design shall:
be fully and professionally completed without error, omission or Defect;
comply with the provisions of the Subcontract;
be fit for construction;
be fit for all purposes for which such a part of the Works might reasonably be used; and
be fit for any purpose made known to the Subcontractor prior to the date of this Subcontract.
The Subcontractor acknowledges that the Contractor has entered into this Subcontract in reliance on the representations and warranties given in this clause.
3. Design Responsibility
0. the Subcontractor represents and warrants that it relies on any information or document provided by the Contractor, the Contractor's Representative or Client or any agent or consultant of either entirely at its own risk and is deemed to have itself prepared any such information or documents. The Contractor shall have no liability whatsoever in connection with any such information or documents and the Subcontractor acknowledges that the Contractor has entered into this Subcontract in reliance on this representation and warranty; and
the Contractor shall not be obliged to review or comment upon any design or to check any design for errors, omissions or compliance with the Subcontract.  The Contractor or its agent's receipt of, or review of or comment upon any design or documents including documents provided by the Subcontractor shall not relieve the Subcontractor from responsibility for the Subcontractor's errors, omissions or Defects or any departure from the requirements of the Subcontract.

4. Submission of Design in Time to Allow Re-Work

The Subcontractor shall submit any design developed or carried out by the Subcontractor:
0. in accordance with any program for the Works that has been approved by the Contractor, within the reason that certain defined works and some ongoing works are already deemed to be still in the decision process as controlled by the client and therefore cannot be expressly guaranteed and that instruction and rebriefing of already designated subcontractors/ vendors requiring resubmissions by said subcontractors and vendors also cannot be guaranteed; and
in any event, within sufficient time to allow reasonable times for:
the Contractor to comment upon that design and submit it to the Client; and
re-design work or amended design work if required by the Contractor or the Client,
so that any re-design work or amended design work (taking into account the requirements of the Contractor or the Client) can be carried out by the Subcontractor without causing any delay in the progress of the work under the Subcontract or the Head Contract Works .
The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any Claim if required to carry out any re-design work or amended design work, pursuant to this clause.
5. Design Documents
The Subcontractor shall provide such design documents and samples as the Contractor's Representative may require and for the Contractor to comply with its design obligations under the Head Contract in respect of the work under the Subcontract.  Design documents may include drawings, specifications, as-built drawings, operating and maintenance manuals, calculations, test certificates, surveys, reports and schedules.
Unless the Subcontract expressly requires a greater number than required by this clause, or the Contractor's Representative agrees in writing to accept a lesser number, the Subcontractor shall provide the Contractor with one original and five copies of all design documents.  At the request of the Contractor's Representative, the Subcontractor shall provide, in addition to or in substitution for (as determined by the Contractor' Representative in its discretion) the design documents otherwise to be provided under the Subcontract, design documents in an electronic format approved by the Contractor's Representative.
6. Design Presentation
The Subcontractor shall make design presentations to the Contractor and their representatives at the times or stages required by any program for the Works approved by the Contractor and at other times required by the Contractor's Representative.  The Subcontractor shall ensure that its designer and other relevant personnel attend design presentations. Design presentations shall include, without limitation, appropriate representation from relevant consultants, and provision of design documents, samples and other relevant information required by the Contractor's Representative or the Contractor to properly consider the design.
7. Design Intent
For the purposes of this clause, 'Design Intent' means the design principles, shapes, forms, outlines, materials, finishes, colours, quality and types of materials and finishes, systems, concepts, and standards and relationships between all and any of these as inferred, shown, evidenced or reasonably contemplated by the Subcontract.
Unless otherwise expressly permitted by the Subcontract, the Subcontractor shall not depart from the Design Intent.  If the Subcontractor proposes to depart from the Design Intent and such departure is not expressly permitted by the Subcontract, the Subcontractor shall, as soon as it becomes aware of the need for or desirability of such departure, but in any event no later than when it submits its design to the Contractor. The Subcontractor must clearly specify the proposed departure and the reasons therefore.  The Subcontractor shall not implement any work the subject of a proposed departure until the Contractor has commented on the design of that work and has not rejected it.  The Contractor will be under no obligation to accept or approve any departure from the Design Intent.
8. Design Certification
The Subcontractor shall submit with each progress payment claim and at such other times as the Contractor's Representative may require, a certificate issued by the Subcontractor certifying that the Works have been constructed in accordance with the design and that the design is in accordance with the requirements of the Subcontract.  The certificate shall be in a form approved by the Contractor and may include a list of minor omissions and Defects.
Failure by the Subcontractor to provide a certificate in compliance with this clause shall be a substantial breach of the Subcontract.
9. Nominated Trips, inspections and meetings:

0. ____ – Global Commissioning meeting on site (the consultant).
0. ____ – IT setup and instigation of the pre-opening office (by the consultant's office).
0. ____ - Global Commissioning meeting by Skype (the consultant).
0. ____ – Global Commissioning meeting by Skype (the consultant).
0. ____ – Instigation of onsite operational IT instigation and Coordination (detailed inspections and onsite management) (the consultant).
0. ____ – Opening and Installation by the hotel operator of Private Wide Area Network Connection (TBD).
0. ____ – Post Construction Operational Technology Instigation and final documentation – (the consultant).
PAYMENT CONDITIONS
Once the deliverables outlined in drawing ____ are signed off by the Client (expected ____), any significant branding or technology direction changes, including changes to any Vendor are subject to a claim for fee variation.
A payment schedule comprising an initial claim of $____ plus GST at ____ and Followed by 5 equal monthly claims of $____ plus GST each – payment within 30 days.
If the project runs past ____, a fixed fee of $____ per month will be charged for scheduling and availability.

1. Expenses:
Flights, Parking, Taxis, Trains, Busses, Hire Cars and Accommodation will be billed for reimbursement. All other items are included within the billable rates. All of these expenses are to be billed at cost (ex GST) + 15% for administration.

GENERAL CONDITIONS OF SCOPE:
1. BCA 2014 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
1. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority.
1. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
1. It is mandatory Site requirement that safety boots, hi-visibility clothing and hard hats are worn onsite  at all times and the Contractor strongly encourages personnel to wear long sleeve clothing for sun protection.
1. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required.

EXCLUSIONS:

1. None.

