THE PROJECT
HYDRAULIC & GAS SERVICES
SCOPE OF WORKS


Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a construct subcontract and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant and equipment necessary to document, manufacture, supply, install and certify the complete Hydraulic and Gas Services required for complete and functioning buildings, fit for its purpose, In its entirety to drawings and Specifications and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practise, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities as generally described below including but not limited to:

The subcontractor is deemed to, but not limited to, have:
1. Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Principal to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.
1. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
1. Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
1. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.

DESCRIPTION OF WORK AREA:
· the project, Central Facilities: –
· Fire ring main including fire hydrant reels and fire hydrants.
· All stormwater drainage works including downpipes.
· Sanitary drainage including.
· Grease interceptor trap.
· All water services including cold and hot.
· All gas services excluding storage tank.
· Installation of Bathroom plumbing hardware


SPECIFIC INCLUSIONS:
1. All above items within site boundary.
2. Removal from site all spoil. Fill to be taken to an area onsite (existing green keepers shed).
3. All the general requirements as necessary to achieve the performance of the specific design and specification for hydraulics services.
4. Sewer Drainage - Document, supply & installation of the sewer/house drainage system to collect sanitary plumbing stacks.
5. Sanitary Plumbing - Document, supply and installation of the stack, soil and waste piping from the sanitary fixtures to the in-ground drainage system.
6. Cold Water Service - Document, supply and installation of the cold water service from the connection to service all fixtures. Allow to document, supply and install all backflow prevention devices, air-conditioning water services connection Also any pressure limiting devices as necessary for the systems to operate correctly.
7. Hot Water Service -: Document, supply & installation of the hot water pipe work system including the solar system to all fixtures & facilities.
8. Stormwater Drainage -: Document, supply & installation of the stormwater drainage system, including any associated pits, trenching, backfill, etc.
9. Downpipes -: Document, supply and installation of the downpipes to the in ground storm water drainage system.
10. Sanitary Fixtures & Tapware -: Allow installation of sanitary fixtures and tapware, specifications to provided in due course.
11. Allow to supply sealants, bolts, brackets, cement & sundry materials for installation & connection in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions and AS 3500.
12. Incoming water supplies from point of connections. Include liaising with all Authorities for all associated works.
13. Capping and sealing of redundant services.

INSTALLATION:
1. Detailed set out for all hydraulic works.
2. Setting out and marking any services to be cut into plasterboard or ceiling soffits.
3. Provision of any non-formed penetrations and core holes.
4. All roadsawing.
5. Clean all services prior to handover of the installation.
6. Structural bracing/support, including noggins, and water proofing around any devices as required.
7. All necessary reticulation, cabling and cable management systems (vertical and horizontal) and associated supports.
8. Trenching including excavation and backfilling.
9. Provision of over flashings required to ensure water proofing of all penetrations through the building structure.
10. Provision of flow markers as required.
11. Provision of structural sub members required for support of plant and equipment.
12. Allow to provide suitable sealant and make good around penetrations associated with the works. Material used should be in accordance with the relevant standards and authority requirements.
13. All rubbish removal on a regular basis to bins provided by the Principal.
14. Provide all task specific access equipment, scaffolding, signage, barricades, access ways, safe access to all areas and task lighting.
15. Full time on-site supervision for the duration of the works.
16. Where excavation work is required the compaction ratio of the trenching is to be 98%
17. Provide all labour and material to complete the works. Some items may not be covered in the scope of works but will be deemed to be included.
18. Include for the works associated with the staging requirements
19. Continuity of works is not guaranteed at any time.
20. The Principal will allow for all coordination with other adjacent trades affecting the work to ensure best practice design and installation is affected.
21. Subcontractor must provide all materials handling.
22. Minimal storage is available on site.
23. All required access equipment is to be provided by the subcontractor, complete with certification as necessary and suitable trained and competent personnel to operate / erect any such equipment.
24. It is the responsibility of the Subcontractor to co-ordinate their work with that of other trades and the project works as a whole. No additional costs will be considered by the Principal for any co-ordination costs throughout the duration of the works.
25. Attend co-ordination meetings with the Principal, subcontractors and designers as required.

Testing Commissioning & Handover
1. Maintenance during the defect liability period to include preventative maintenance in accordance with Australian Standards.
2. Certificate of Compliance - Provide all testing and commissioning and demonstrate compliance of the installations to the satisfaction of the building certifier and local authorities.
3. Testing and commissioning including attendance at intersystem commissioning tests.
4. Commissioning Manual.
5. Operating and Maintenance Manuals.
6. Building User’s Guide.
7. Client Training.
8. Includes all testing equipment as required, and for all demonstrations to Principal, authorities, etc as necessary.
9. All subcontractor installed elements shall be “Trade Cleaned” prior to handover to the Principal. A trade clean shall include the removal from the works of any pencil marks, stickers, excess sealant etc. At the completion of the trade clean only cleaning as would normally be expected for the ongoing maintenance on the building shall remain. The Principal must sign off and approve this has been carried out prior to Practical Completion being approved.
10. Provide all warranties to the Principal.
11. The systems, including all interfacing is required to meet the approval of the consultants, authorities, Certifier, QFRS (if necessary) and the Principal.



GENERAL CONDITIONS OF SCOPE:
1. BCA 2014 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
1. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority, concerning maximum noise levels, sedimentation control and control of dust.
1. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
1. The Subcontractor shall ensure that vehicles leaving the site do so in a condition that is in accordance with the Site Environmental Management Plan and EPA requirements.
1. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Principal.
1. The Principal will provide one datum and two set out points for the subcontractor to work off. No other surveying will be provided.
1. Supervision of all Works to the required standard by personnel licensed and registered as required by statutory regulations and to the satisfaction of the Principal.
1. Coordination and installation of the Subcontract Works with all preceding and following trades.
1. The Subcontractor shall ensure all of the Subcontractor’s personnel are inducted into the Subcontractor’s safety plan and have undertaken training and are competent in all tasks and work procedures.
1. All Subcontractor personnel are to attend Site “toolbox talks” / safety briefs as required at the Principal’s discretion (minimum 1 x weekly and as nominated in the Principals Project Site Safety Plan.
1. All electrical equipment required to carry out these Works must carry tags in conformance with the Workplace Health and Safety Act which includes provisions for monthly checks on all electrical equipment.  Electrical registers to be supplied and maintained.
1. All mobile plant and equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply and safety Authority requirements and be maintained in a first class condition at all times.  The Subcontractor is to keep records of maintenance and provide records to the Principal on request. Copies of last major service records and daily/weekly operator’s checklists to be supplied to the Principal prior to use.
1. Supply all necessary material safety data sheets, risk assessments, safe work method statements and training records prior to commencement on Site.
1. It is mandatory Site requirement that, in addition to safety boots, hi-visibility clothing and hard hats, all employees are to wear long sleeve clothing whilst on Site.
1. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required for their work tasks.
1. The Subcontractor is to remove their own rubbish at the end of each day from the work area and place in bins provided by the Principal. The Subcontractor shall empty rubbish into these bins on a regular basis The Subcontractor is responsible to provide their own wheelie bins to transport rubbish to Principal supplied bins. The Subcontractor shall dispose of all waste material in an approved manner. No material whatsoever including building fittings and fixtures shall be disposed of in non-Principal approved bins
1. Provide labourers, brooms, shovels, wheelbarrows/wheelie bins etc for regular Site clean ups at the request of the Principal. Should the Subcontractor fail to adhere to regular Site cleanups, the Principal will supply labour and equipment at the Subcontractor’s expense.
1. Provide an installation certificate in the form required by the Principal certifying that the materials and workmanship installed in the Subcontract Works comply with:-
17. The Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Australian Standards and good engineering practice covering the installation;
17. The requirements of the Subcontract Documents and that the installation is suitable for the intended purpose;
17. Completion of all defects and outstanding Works under the Subcontract.

EXCLUSIONS:

1. All works outside of site boundary.
2. Bulk earthworks.
3. Concrete works excluding pits that are made onsite.
4. Blockwork.
5. Authority Fees of any type.
6. New or upgraded Sewer & Water Main Branches & extension to site boundary.
7. Site Silt & Sediment Control requirements.
8. Any costs associated with provision of Surveyor for set out of Hydraulic Services.
9. Dewatering.
10. Location, alteration, removal &/or termination of any undocumented existing services.
11. Roof work, Flashings, Box Gutters, Sumps, Overflows/Rain heads & metal downpipes/spitters.
12. Fire Blankets & Fire Extinguishers.
