THE PROJECT
LANDSCAPING
SCOPE OF WORKS


Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a construct only subcontract and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant, tools and equipment necessary to document, shop draw, manufacture, deliver, install and certify the complete LANDSCAPING required for a complete and functioning resort, fit for its purpose, In its entirety to drawings and Specifications and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practise, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities as generally described below including but not limited to:

The subcontractor is deemed to, but not limited to, have:
1. Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Contractor to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.
2. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
3.  Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
4. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.
INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW:
The project, Central Facilities is located on the site and will be the central hub for a two hundred, individual cabin, beach resort.

Central facilities consist of five separate buildings numbered one to five:

· Building 1 holds the pool café and bar, two multi purpose rooms and kitchen.
· Building 2 consist of the port-cochere, reception, foyer, restaurant, main kitchen, conference centre and admin offices.
· Building 3 is the day spa and gym.
· Building 4 is housekeeping.
· Building 5 is the pool plantroom.

Central Facilities also has a 1000m2 swimming pool and spa.
Buildings 1, 2 and 3 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground in a raft design
· Structural steel frame with composite purlins
· Aluminium framed glazing and doors
· Aluminium roofing

Building 4 and 5 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground
· Blockwork
· Steel frames and timber trusses
· Metal roof
DESCRIPTION OF WORK:
Soft landscaping to Central Facilities including, but not limited to, supply and install green walls, planting, mulching, irrigations system etc. as per the landscape architect's designs.

1. Provide all Soft-scape items in accordance with the design, including but not limited to:
· Soft Landscaping
· Street-scaping to Tree locations
· Trees
· Palms and ferns
· Shrubs/accent
· Groundcovers
· Vines
· Turf
· Mounding
· Fertilising
· E1 – Edge Type 1
2. Provide all Furniture items in accordance with the design, including but not limited to:
· SR – proprietary hanging lounge
· BG-1 – Pool side bungalow
· BK-1 Bike Rack
· B1 – Bollard type including footings
3. Provide all Miscellaneous items in accordance with the design, including but not limited to:

· PT5 – Pavement type 5
· PT7 – Pavement Type 7
· PT10a – Pavement Type 10a
· PT10b – Pavement Type 10b
· WLT-3 Wall type 3
· WLT-4 Wall type 4
· GW-1 Green wall  type 1

4. The Contractor will install top soil to planter beds to relevant ground level. All other topsoil will be installed by the Subcontractor including mounding and shaping etc.
5. All topsoil will be supplied by the Contractor from the stockpile, onsite, located 500m down the road from the site. All topsoil being installed by the Subcontractor needs to be transported from this stockpile to site as required.
6. All mulch will be supplied by the Contractor from the stockpile, onsite, located 500m down the road from the site. The Subcontractor will transport mulch from the stockpile to site as required.
7. Allow to coordinate with services trades.
8. Allow to co-ordinate with Pool installer.
9. The Subcontractor shall allow for all labour and supervision costs to work on a number of dedicated work fronts as requested by the Contractor to meet programme requirements.
10. Allow for the supply and installation of all plants (as well as soil and mulch) as per the Planting Schedule and as per the design.
11. The Subcontractor shall allow for the existing trees to be retained and protected as noted on the drawings and making good.
12. Provide maintenance to planting for a 12 week period and 52 week period for all ex-ground stock after Practical Completion for the Head Contract.  There will be an inspection by the Landscape Architect after this initial period.  The Subcontractor shall allow to replace any plants at this point as requested by the Landscape Architect.
13. Provide all samples as required.
14. Supply and installation of irrigation system from RPZ at building 5.
15. The Landscape Subcontractor shall allow to supply and install Irrigation Controllers.
16. The Subcontractor shall liaise with the Hydraulic and Electrical Subcontractors to co-ordinate the installation of the Irrigation system and Controllers.
17. The subcontractor will provide at handover accurate surveyed if necessary “As Builts” of the irrigation system.
18. The Subcontractor shall allow to supply and maintain at all times a protective covering to the works until directed by the Contractor to remove.
INCLUSIONS
1.0 INSURANCE
Provide Work Cover as per one of the below options:
19. NSW Work Cover Policy.
20. Written confirmation from Qcover that this specific project is covered for the duration of the works.
2.0 PROGRAM
2.1 Contractor's Program
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that:
21. it has carefully reviewed the Contractors program or proposed program for the project; and
22. it is able to and shall perform its obligations consistently with any such program.
2.2 Amended Program
If the Contractor's program is updated, amended or replaced the Subcontractor shall take whatever action is necessary to perform its obligations consistently with any such program (without becoming obliged to accelerate the whole of the work under the Subcontract so as to bring forward the Date for Practical Completion). The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any Claim arising out of or in connection with the effects of the Contractor's program being updated, amended or replaced.  The Contractor does not warrant that the project or any other work will be carried out consistently with the Contractor's program.
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that it has a clear understanding of the allowances for delay made in the Contractor's program and has included in its program such delay allowances as it considers necessary. If any such allowances prove inadequate and/or actual delays exceed allowances, then the Subcontractor shall reduce the net duration of its activities accordingly and the Subcontractor has allowed for that reduction, without being entitled to any Claim.
2.3 Completion on Time
The Subcontractor shall achieve Practical Completion by the Date for Practical Completion.
2.4 Working days
Normal days for working onsite are Monday to Saturday and the Subcontractor has allowed for this their tender. Working on Saturdays is compulsory for all trades.
3.0 STANDARD OF WORK AND PERFORMANCE
In addition to any other obligation, representation or warranty, whether statutory or otherwise, the Subcontractor shall to the satisfaction of the Contractor:
1. construct the Works in accordance with the Subcontract:
a) using best work practices; and
b) using materials described in the Subcontract conditions, or failing any specific description then of the best quality available which are fit for their intended purpose;
2. ensure that the Works during and after construction comply with all the requirements of or to be inferred from:
a) the Subcontract;
b) the requirements from time to time of the Building Code of Australia and all relevant statutes, codes, delegated legislation and codes published by the Standards Association of Australia; and
c) all relevant Authorities;
3. Exercise utmost good faith and full disclosure to the Contractor in performing its obligations under the Subcontract including without limitation when it makes claims for progress and other payments; and
4. Supply and execute items not expressly mentioned in the Subcontract but which are necessary or usual for work similar to the Works, without being entitled to any Claim.
4.0 TRADE SPECIFIC INCLUSIONS

1. Supply, fabricate, deliver, unload, handle, hoist, install and certify the following landscaping and external works items in accordance with the Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Building Services Authority requirements, Building Code of Australia, Australian Standards and good building practice:-
· Topsoil to planting boxes and beds;
· Cultivation treatment;
· Treatment of the ground surface prior to placing the topsoil;
· Turfing;
· Mulching;
· Any associated fertilizer and the establishment of grass seed, turf sods and similar by watering, weeding, mowing or rolling;
· Planting;
· Trees;
· Shrubs;
· Root barriers;
· Maintenance of the landscaping works;
· Irrigation system;
2. Provide samples of plants, trees, shrubs and similar items for approval by the Contractor, evidence of orders of mature plants within a suitable time to ensure the Head Contract Works construction programme is achieved.
3. Provide samples of wall types as need be for approval by the Contractor, then order in sufficient time to avoid late deliveries against the Head Contract Works construction programme.
4. Dust nuisance – protection to Site workforce including surrounding neighbours and general public by covering, wetting, as need be.
5. Protect surrounding building fences, neighbours properties from soil staining otherwise make good.
6. Site services – locate, identify existing site services before starting work.  Protect services, cap off.  Redirect as need be will be by the Contractor.  Ensure these services remain protected during the landscape works.
7. Protect all finished paving and waterproof membranes from skid steer loaders, other machinery or anything else likely to cause damage.
8. Construction of drainage swales as necessary.

GROUNDWORKS
1. Siteworks including:-
· Removal of trees complete with stumps and roots, if applicable
· Protection and retention of existing trees and shrubs, if applicable
· Turf or vegetable soil to be stockpiled, if applicable
· Poisoning of tree suckers, roots and similar items, if applicable
· Poisoning and treatment of general ground areas and sides and bottom of trenches, if applicable
2. Surface preparation including:-
· Reduced level excavation
· Levelling
· Grading
· Trimming
· Mounding

FILLING AND HARDCORE
1. Filling in beds
2. Filling behind retaining walls etc
3. Filling over site
4. Filling to slopes
5. Surface preparation including:-
· Over site filling
· Floor slab filling
· Levelling
· Grading
· Trimming
· Similar items

5.0 TESTING AND INSPECTIONS

6. The Subcontractor must ensure all necessary Site measurement is carried out prior to fabrication.
7. The Subcontractor will be responsible for the quantity of materials required for the project.
8. The Subcontractor must accept delivery and check condition of materials prior to installation.
9. The Subcontractor shall obtain certification from the manufacturers of each material and that the material is of correct grade, strength, size, specification etc.
6.0 PROCUREMENT

1. The Subcontractor must submit samples for approval prior to order being placed.
2. The Subcontractor is to provide detailed lead time durations for the supply of material.

7.0 MANUFACTURE, STORAGE AND MATERIALS HANDLING

9. All materials handling will be by the Subcontractor.
10. The Subcontractor must provide all trade specific handling equipment for movement and installation of their work.
8.0 HANDOVER

1. The subcontractor shall allow for all documentation, certification and the like as per contract documentation and specification.
2. The subcontractor shall allow issuing a defects list prior to the Contractor performing their own final inspection.
3. Full final clean (not to be confused with trade cleaning which shall be carried out progressively), to all external works, shall be carried out prior to Practical Completion to the satisfaction of the Contractor.


9.0 MAINTENANCE AND WARRANTIES

1. Provision of comprehensive Warranties fit for purpose, for periods outlined in the below schedule All warranties commence on the Date of Practical Completion.
2. All warranties are to be back to back from Subcontractor and manufacturer.


	Central Facilities
Warranties/Maintenance Schedule



Trade


Warranty
Period years)
	Preventative Maintenance Period

	Civil Works
	3
	Nil

	Termite Barriers
	10
	12 months

	Reinforced Concrete Structure
	7
	nil

	Structural Timber Framing
	7
	nil

	External & Internal Structural
Carpentry Items
	7

nil

	Carbon Fibre Purlins
	7
	nil

	Structural Steel Supply
	10
	nil

	Paint Finish of External & Internal
Structural Steel
	20

nil

	Steel Erection
	1
	nil

	Metal Roof/Gutters & Downpipes
Supply
	10

nil

	Metal Roof/Gutters & Downpipes
Install
	7

Nil

	Skylights
	7
	nil

	Kitchen Stainless Steel Work
	5
	Nil

	Kitchen Equipment Supply
	5
	Nil

	Kitchen Fridges/Coldrooms/Freezers
Panelling
	7

Nil

	Coldrooms/Freezers Plant Supply
Items
	1

Nil

	External Cladding
	7
	Nil

	Membrane Gutter
	20
	Nil

	Wet Area Membrane
	15
	Nil

	Metal Work
	7
	Nil

	Operable Walls
	5
	Nil

	WC Partitions
	7
	Nil

	Joinery
	7
	Nil

	Roof Safety Equipment
	15
	12 Months

	Doors & Door Frames Supply
	7
	Nil

	Aluminium Window Frames
	6
	Nil

	Glazing
	7
	Nil

	Aluminium Window Frame
Powdercoating
	15

Nil

	Door Hardware
	2
	Nil

	Plasterboard
	2
	Nil

	Ceramic Tiling
	7
	Nil

	Suspended Ceiling
	7
	Nil

	Carpet & Non Slip Flooring Supply
	7
	Nil

	Timber Flooring
	7
	Nil

	Caulking
	7
	Nil

	External Paint Finishes other than
Steelwork
	7

Nil

	Hydraulic Services Installation
	7
	12 months

	Rainwater Tanks Supply
	10
	12 months

	Sanitary ware & Taps
	2
	12 months


10.0 GENERAL CONDITIONS (ALL SUBCONTRACTORS):
1. BCA 2014 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
2. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority, concerning maximum noise levels, sedimentation control and control of dust.
3. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
4. The Subcontractor shall ensure that vehicles leaving the site do so in a condition that is in accordance with the Site Environmental Management Plan and EPA requirements.
5. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Contractor.
6. The Contractor will provide one datum and two set out points for the subcontractor to work off. No other surveying will be provided.
7. Supervision of all Works to the required standard by personnel licensed and registered as required by statutory regulations and to the satisfaction of the Contractor.
8. Coordination and installation of the Subcontract Works with all preceding and following trades.
9. The Subcontractor shall ensure all of the Subcontractor’s personnel are inducted into the Subcontractor’s safety plan and have undertaken training and are competent in all tasks and work procedures.
10. All Subcontractor personnel are to attend Site “toolbox talks” / safety briefs as required at the Contractor’s discretion (minimum 1 x weekly and as nominated in the Contractors Project Site Safety Plan.
11. All electrical equipment required to carry out these Works must carry tags in conformance with the Workplace Health and Safety Act which includes provisions for monthly checks on all electrical equipment.  Electrical registers to be supplied and maintained.
12. All mobile plant and equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply and safety Authority requirements and be maintained in a first class condition at all times.  The Subcontractor is to keep records of maintenance and provide records to the Contractor on request. Copies of last major service records and daily/weekly operator’s checklists to be supplied to the Contractor prior to use.
13. Supply all necessary material safety data sheets, risk assessments, safe work method statements and training records prior to commencement on Site.
14. It is mandatory Site requirement that, in addition to safety boots, hi-visibility clothing and hard hats, all employees are to wear long sleeve clothing whilst on Site.
15. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required for their work tasks.
16. The Subcontractor is to remove their own rubbish at the end of each day from the work area and place in bins provided by the Contractor. The Subcontractor shall empty rubbish into these bins on a regular basis The Subcontractor is responsible to provide their own wheelie bins to transport rubbish to Contractor supplied bins. The Subcontractor shall dispose of all waste material in an approved manner. No material whatsoever including building fittings and fixtures shall be disposed of in non-Contractor approved bins
17. Provide labourers, brooms, shovels, wheelbarrows/wheelie bins etc for regular Site clean ups at the request of the Contractor. Should the Subcontractor fail to adhere to regular Site cleanups, the Contractor will supply labour and equipment at the Subcontractor’s expense.
18. Provide an installation certificate in the form required by the Contractor certifying that the materials and workmanship installed in the Subcontract Works comply with:-
· The Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Australian Standards and good engineering practice covering the installation;
· The requirements of the Subcontract Documents and that the installation is suitable for the intended purpose;
· Completion of all defects and outstanding Works under the Subcontract.

11.0 EXCLUSIONS:
· Footings and structural posts SR hanging lounges
· All sub surface drainage
· Conduits, under structures, for irrigation system
· Design for irrigation system
· SH – Beach Shower
· Seat types 1 – 4
· Fire pit
· Water features 1 and 4
· Entry signage wall
· Concrete kerbs
· Pavement types 1, 6a, 6b, 8, 9 and 11
· Tactiles
· Supply of topsoil
· E2 – Edge Type 2
· Wall types 1 and 2
· Removal and protection of existing trees
· Cranage


12.0 SUBCONTRACT SUM BREAKDOWN

	Item #
	Description
	Qty
	Unit
	Value

	1. 
	Prelims/site set up
	1
	
	

	
	TOPSOIL:
	
	
	

	2. 
	Cultivation to turfed areas
	1
	
	

	3. 
	Topsoil to turfed areas
	1
	
	

	4. 
	Topsoil to planter beds (above ground level)
	1 
	
	

	
	PLANTING:
	 
	
	
	

	5. 
	Tubestock
	11011
	
	
	

	6. 
	75mm
	121
	
	
	

	7. 
	140mm pots
	1514
	
	
	

	8. 
	200mm pots
	2664
	
	
	

	9. 
	300mm pots
	341
	
	
	

	10. 
	25L bags ELAEOCARPUS reticulatus
	13
	
	
	

	11. 
	25L bags Pittosporum undulatum
	19
	
	
	

	12. 
	25L bags Stenocarpus sinuatus
	3
	
	
	

	13. 
	45L bags ELAEOCARPUS eumundi
	11
	
	
	

	14. 
	45L bags XANTHORRHOEA johnsonii
	6
	
	
	

	15. 
	100L bags SYZVGIUM francisii
	14
	
	
	

	16. 
	200L bags Acemena hemilampra
	10
	
	
	

	17. 
	200L bags Cupaniopsis anacardoides
	30
	
	
	

	18. 
	200L bags Davidsonia pruriens
	5
	
	
	

	19. 
	200L bags Flindersia schottiana
	20
	
	
	

	20. 
	200L bags Grevillea hiliana
	16
	
	
	

	21. 
	200L bags Melicope elleryana
	5
	
	
	

	22. 
	200L bags Pandanus pedunculatus
	2
	
	
	

	23. 
	Ex Ground Acemena hemilampra
	3
	
	
	

	24. 
	Ex Ground Cupaniopsis anacardoides
	3
	
	
	

	25. 
	Ex ground Hymenosporum flavum
	3
	
	
	

	26. 
	Ex ground Syzgium moorei
	7
	
	
	

	
	MULCH:
	 
	
	
	

	27. 
	Install site mulch
	 
	
	
	

	
	IRRIGATION SYSTEM:
	 
	
	
	

	28. 
	Supply and install irrigation system
	 
	
	
	

	
	TURF:
	 
	
	
	

	29. 
	Supply and lay turf
	 
	
	
	

	
	EDGING:
	 
	
	
	

	30. 
	E1 - Edge type 1
	 
	
	
	

	
	PAVEMENTS:
	 
	
	
	

	31. 
	PT5 - Pavement type 5
	 
	
	
	

	32. 
	PT7 - Pavement type 7
	 
	
	
	

	33. 
	PT10a - Pavement type 10a
	 
	
	
	

	34. 
	PT10b - Pavement type 10b
	 
	
	
	

	
	WALL TYPES:
	 
	
	
	

	35. 
	WLT-3 Wall type 3
	 
	
	
	

	36. 
	WLT-4 Wall type 4
	 
	
	
	

	37. 
	GW-1 Green Wall type 1
	 
	
	
	

	
	FURNITURE:
	 
	
	
	

	38. 
	BG-1 Pool side bungalows
	 
	
	
	

	39. 
	SR - proprietary hanging lounger
	 
	
	
	

	40. 
	BK-1 Bike rack type 1
	 
	
	
	

	41. 
	B1 - Bollard type 1
	 
	
	
	

	
	 
	 
	
	
	

	42. 
	Maintenance
	 
	
	
	




13. AGREED SUBCONTRACT RATES

	Item #
	Description
	Unite
	Rate

	1. 
	Labour rate
	Hourly
	

	2. 
	Supply and place topsoil
	M3
	

	3. 
	Supply and place mulch
	M3
	

	4. 
	Watering during construction (excludes water)
	Hourly
	





