
  


      THE PROJECT 

ALUMINIUM WINDOWS & GLASS DOORS
SCOPE OF WORKS

Date: ____


TRADE PACKAGE: ALUMINIUM WINDOWS & GLASS DOORS

SCOPE OF WORKS

The scope of works shall include, but not be limited to the following:

1. Supply all labour, plant and equipment necessary to complete the entire supply and installation of all Aluminium frames windows/doors/louvres which includes folding glaze doors, glaze walls and associated works in accordance with the drawings, specifications, construction programme and the relevant Australian Standards, statutory requirements and professional standards including everything necessary for the proper and timely completion in a properly coordinated and safe manner.

2. Scope in general is to complete the entire Aluminium Window / Door Suite System Works to the project. 
3. Window systems/Sliding doors/Hinged doors/Awning windows are to the nominated proprietary window suite specification or similar approved as per Window Schedule Architectural Drawings.  

4. Fabrication, Supply and Installation of all works including cutting, bracing, bolting, riveting, drilling, countersinking, welding, grinding joints off flush, filling and also marking, delivery, unloading, handling, hoisting to levels, fitting, fixing, and cleaning free from loose scale and touching up shop primer or galvanising or other surface treatments where damaged on site all as specified.

5. Include for fabrication using anodised aluminium members, conforming to the approved standard details and Australian Standards, for fixing in position complete with all packings, fixing clips and brackets, fastenings, expansion joints, weather seals, and for providing and fixing all integral sub-frames, cover plates, trims or moulds and for all necessary sealants.

6. Allowance to be made for prefinishing aluminium, shadow box assemblies, glass and glazing, fly screens, hinges, locks and hardware, fixings, packers and fixing plates, all flashings, sealants, caulking, weather seals, weather bars, trims, cover plates and the like as specified on Drawings and specifications.

7. Glass and glazing shall be in accordance with AS1288 and include for all labour and materials in bedding and fixing including taking off and refixing glazing beds, snap-in beads, materials, priming all rebates, foam rubber backing, neoprene gasket spacers, sprigs, pins, etc. Splaying off, straight cutting, trimming and for cleaning glass.

8. The Subcontractor is to allow for the supply & installation of all auto doors including commissioning and testing.
9. The Subcontractor is to allow for all design including structural design, manufacture, supply delivery, installation, protection (external), removal of protection, protection of tape to frames (external) completion and trade cleaning of Glazed Curtain Walls as per Architectural Specification Section 08900 including AS1170 and Structural Drawing S000.A. 

10. The Subcontractor is to supply and install aluminium architraves where shown on documentation.

11. The Subcontractor is to supply and install proprietary Disabled Door Ramps (77 for a total cost of $____).  
12. Allowance to be made for safety markings and motifs.

13. Supply and install fully weathered horizontal & vertical expansion joints to allow for thermal movement in joints and fastenings.

14. Supply and installation of all separation strips between different materials subject to electrolysis where necessary and as required.
15. Allowance to be made for insulation, insulation support, sarking/vapour barriers.
16. Include for all operable and opening sashes and all associated hardware including chain/lockable winder & friction stay to openable windows. All operable windows & doors on ground floor to have stainless steel mesh or similar approved security screens.
17. Supply & install all acoustic seals as required to Aluminium framed doors and windows as per specification and drawings. 

18. Supply and installation of all smoke and fire seals/proofing.
19. Provide detailed shop drawings for approval all in accordance with the drawings and the Architect’s Architectural Specifications.

20. Provide samples of all sections, joints, hardware, finishes, sill details and colour range for review and approval.  
21. Sample / prototype installation will be required for each system for review and approval.

22. Allow for transportation, delivery, on site storage as necessary, all horizontal movement of stock and coordination of with the builder’s staff.

23. Allow for protection of completed installations to avoid damage from other finishing trades.  Adhesive protective coatings shall NOT be used as per Architectural Specification. Please note on your quotation what has been allowed for.

24. Include supply and installation of sarking, flashing sealants in order to achieve a water tight finish.  Any fixings going through water proof membranes must be adequately sealed.

25. Supply and install all architectural door and window hardware as specified to aluminium framed windows and doors detailed in the Architect’s Architectural Specification. Provide final cylinders and keys as required for each Sliding door and Openable window. 
26. Site measure all works prior to fabrication.

27. Pre-cut materials wherever possible to reduce handling and wastage prior to deliver on site
28. Confirm all structural elements or architectural elements required but shown to complete your package.

29. Tape all glazing and the like to windows and doors to clearly identify it in accordance with standard safe practices.

30. Rubbish to be collected daily in the Subcontractors own bins and then dumped into a common bin provided by the Main Contractor at or near the buildings entrance.  The builder encourages the use of materials ordered to length.  
31. Clean remove all trade and installation marking and protection created or applied by the Subcontractor immediately prior to final clean operations including but limited to tape residues, plastic films, frame tape etc.

32. Provide engineers certificate for all glazing prior to the issue of practical completion certificate.

33. Provision of adequate supervision of the works and checking of all work carried out by others likely to affect the installation.

34. Provide ‘As Built’ drawings prior to practical completion as documented in the Architect’s Specification Architectural Specification.

35. Provision of all excess scaffold and working platforms as necessary to complete the Subcontractors works not specifically agreed to be provided by the Main Contractor, including but not limited mobile scaffolds and scissor lifts.

36. The Subcontractor shall supply their own safety equipments such as harnesses, guard rails, etc to provide a safe environment for their works and other at all times.

37. All site access points and storage areas to be subject to the agreement of the Main Contractor.

38. Execute the works in the sequence required by the Main Contractor and allowance for minor breaks in continuity in accordance with the construction programme.

39. Loading and offloading materials on site is the Subcontractors responsibility.  All labour, slings, crates, trolleys, etc. associated with the movement of materials is by the Subcontractor.  The crane will be available for the Subcontractor at a time coordinated well in advance with the Main Contractor.

40. Provision of all excess scaffold and working platforms as necessary to complete the Subcontractors works not specifically agreed to be provided by the Main Contractor, including but not limited to mobile scaffolds and scissor lifts.

41. All horizontal transportation and movement of materials in and around site is the Subcontractors responsibility.

42. Have in place a quality assurance system to meet both the requirements of the Main Contractor and that of the Architect’s Architectural Specification.

43. The site is a 6 day workplace.  It is the subcontractors responsibility to supply all labour as necessary to meet the construction programme.

44. Administration Requirements

45. All progress claims are to include a comprehensive breakdown of the completed works.

46. The issuing of a site instruction does not necessarily deem the work outlined within it to be a variation. The signing of day labour dockets by a builder’s employee does not necessarily deem that work to be a variation.  

47. The following drawings will form part of the contract and have been nominated by the Main Contractor as particularly relevant to your trade or area of responsibility and may require further coordination between the Subcontractor, Main Contractor, relevant Consultant and possible other Subcontractors:

48. The following specifications will form part of the contract and have been nominated by the Main Contractor as particularly relevant to your trade or area of responsibility and may require further coordination between the Subcontractor, Main Contractor, relevant Consultant and possible other Subcontractors:

	Specifications
	As per attached schedule register dated ____ including
the Architect’s Architectural Specification

· Section 003 Notes

· Document 00630 Warranties

· Document 01090 References
· Section 05080 Metal Finishes – Shop Applied
· Section 07810 Fireproofing
· Section 08200 Doors & Door Frames
· Section 08350 Folding Doors and Grilles 
· Section 08450 Fully Glazed Entrance Facades

· Section 08460 Automatic Sliding Door Assemblies 

· Section 08500 Metal Windows & Glazing
· Section 08660 Window Security
· Section 08800 Glass & Glazing
· Section 08900 Glazed Curtain Walls

· Exterior Finishes Schedule Revision ____ dated ____

	Drawings
	As per attached drawing register dated ____

	Reports
	Traffic Management Plan 
Environmental Management Plan

	Construction

Programme
	Construction Programme Rev ____ dated ____

	Timing / Critical Dates
	TBA

	Labour Rates
	TBA


GENERAL:

1. Should any discrepancies occur between the civil, architectural, structural and services documentation, the Subcontractor shall allow for the most onerous of these discrepancies and seek advice from the Project Manager.

2. All or any works, labour plant and equipment requirements not specifically mentioned herein or shown in the tender or construction documents but are necessary for the proper use and complete performance of the works as its intended use/operation, shall be deemed to be included in the Subcontractors Tender.  

3. It is the Subcontractors responsibility to ensure at all times they are working from the latest issues of consultants and services drawings and other subcontractors shop drawings and schedule of finishes.

4. Note that all variation claims shall only be considered for approval when they are accompanied by an agreed day work sheet signed by the builder’s Site Manager. In addition, note that a signed day work sheet does not necessarily constitute a variation.

5. All horizontal movement of materials is the Subcontractors responsibility.
6. Include for supply of all equipment necessary to complete the works in a tradesman like manner.  

7. Rubbish to be collected daily in the Subcontractors own bins and then dumped into a common bin provided on site by the builder. The builder encourages the use of materials ordered to length.  

8. Supervision on site at all times to control plant and labour. Every owner of plant must ensure plant is registered with work cover when required and owners are appropriately qualified. Plant must be fitted with working hazard lights/reversing lights and beepers. 
9. All site access points and storage areas to be subject to the agreement of the Main Contractor.

10. The Subcontractor shall supply their own safety equipments such as harnesses, guard rails, etc. to provide a safe working environment for their workers and others at all times.

11. Subcontractor to wear safety helmet and steel capped boots at all times and safety vests when moving plant is present or works is undertaken near traffic. PPE such as eye protection, hearing protection, safety gloves, masks to be worn when welding, drilling and all other tasks with similar risks.
12. The consumption of or being under the influence of alcohol and illegal drugs on the site is prohibited. 

13. Lunch shed & ablution block will be supplied by the Main Contractor – to be located as deemed best by the Main Contractor.

14. Power will be supplied by the Main Contractor.  

15. Subcontractor to submit a site specific Company Safety Plan within 48 hours of Letter of Acceptance being issued by the builder for approval by the Main Contractor.

16. Site safety in general will be a particular focus of the Main Contractor. The builder intends to operate a safe site and shall actively monitor compliance with your Safe Work Method Statement and any relevant codes, statutes and laws.

17. Attendance at any and all site meetings that may be required for the duration of the project is mandatory by a Subcontractor representative (Supervisor or Site Foreman).

18. Provide all warranties and operation & maintenance manuals required. Final payment will not be made until all required documentation has been provided.

19. Defects Liability period: 12 months.

20. Lump Sum Contract.

21. Subcontract Agreement AS 4901.

22. Sequencing of works to be determined on site – sequence to have no impact on costs.

23. The site is a six (6) day workplace. 
24. It has been agreed that liquidated damages be capped at 5% of the Contract Sum.  Retention to be in the form of 2 x 2.5% conditional bank guarantees. 1st expiry to be 6 months after Practical Completion and 2nd to be dated 18 months after Practical Completion.  The builder and the subcontractor to agree dates prior to issuing the builder the Bank Guarantees.   
25. It is the subcontractor’s responsibility to supply all labour as necessary to meet the construction programme.
EXCLUSIONS:

· Survey grids and height datums

· Perimeter scaffolding 

· Balustrade 

· Any Metal Work such as hand rails 

· Metal/Aluminium Screens
