THE PROJECT 
CIVIL
SCOPE OF WORKS

Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract, the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant and equipment to Construct, supply, manufacture, install, test and document all Civil and Concrete work items necessary for a complete and functioning building, fit for its purpose, including but not limited to the following:
1. Excavation
2. Asphalt and sealing
3. Formwork
4. Steel reinforcement
5. Concrete place
6. Blockwork
7. Linemarking

The subcontractor is deemed to, but not limited to, have:
· Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Principal to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.
· Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
·  Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
· Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.

EXCAVATION:
1. Supply, install, maintain, remove and re-instate area for shake out pit to site entrance gate.
2. Locate existing underground services within the work areas.
3. Provide all plant and labour necessary to complete all required excavation works for site.
4. Complete all backfilling and compaction as required.
5. Removal and replacement of soft spots with select granular fill.
6. All tip charges are deemed to be included in the Subcontract. Dumping of all fill must be recorded.
7. Grade to level and compact subgrade to all areas required.
8. Perform appropriate testing of compacted areas and supply results to the satisfaction of the Contractor.  Should results indicate insufficient compaction then additional compaction and testing shall be carried out by the Subcontractor at his expense until the required results are achieved.
9. Water spray the excavations, as instructed by the Principal and required, to reduce dust as a result of the excavation Works.  The Subcontractor shall be responsible for the supply of water costs.  The water supply shall meet the full requirements of Government, Local Authorities etc having jurisdiction over the Works.
10. The Subcontractor shall supply all necessary hand labour required for trimming sides and bottoms of excavations, thickenings, formations etc and backfilling and compaction of same and subgrades.
11. Supply, install, maintain and remove all sediment and erosion controls for site whilst, onsite, carrying out scope works inclusive of variations.
12. The Subcontractor shall liaise with the Hydraulic and Electrical Subcontractors to co-ordinate the stormwater, sewer, lighting and other services within the Civil areas to ensure works completed in accordance with the programme and best practice.
13. Remove all obstructions such as boulders, vegetation and the like and remove from Site.  Protect any existing services encountered during excavations.  Protection of existing trees and shrubs to be retained, work near trees, etc. all as specified. Make good any damage done and fill any resultant holes with approved fill or concrete as instructed by the Contractor.
PAVEMENT:
1. Supply and install a 14/7, two coat flush bitumen seal to all areas as per the marked up scope.

CONCRETE WORKS:
14. Provide all plant, tools and labour to carry out all required excavation, grading, back filling, compaction and testing for concrete works.
15. Supply, install and remove all formwork as required for all concrete works including all sundries.
16. The responsibility of all setting out is by the Subcontractor. The Principal will provide 2no. datum points around site to setout from.
17. Supply and install all steel reinforcement including all necessary sundries.
18. Supply and install all dowel and expansion joints. 
19. Supply, pump, place and test all concrete including but not limited to corefill for retaining walls, existing trenches in switchroom, plinths for all tanks, slabs on ground, kerbs, channel and driveways.
20. All external concrete slabs are to be of a class 3 finish.
21. All kerbs and channel are to be of a class 2 finish.
22. All internal concrete are to be of a class 2 finish.
23. All external concrete slabs must have appropriate fall to prevent ponding of surface water. If ponding occurs post pour all rectification works will be provided by the Subcontractor including all cost.
24. All pours are to have an engineer inspection at least 24 hours prior to the pour to allow for any necessary re-works.
25. The Subcontractor is to endeavour to pour slabs in the biggest possible areas at a time. All pours are to be approved with the Principal prior.
STORMWATER:
1. Allow to coordinate with all services trades.
2. Supply and install all underground stormwater above 150mm Dia including all associated pits.
3. Provide all necessary roadsawing to complete stormwater design.
4. Re-instate asphalt where trenching is required in existing asphalt.
LINEMARKING:
1. Setout, supply and install all linemarking.
2. All linemarking to be installed as per AS.1792
CARPARK ASSECORIES:
1. Supply and install all wheelstops, bollards and speedbumps to the client’s specification.
2. All setting out and fixings are provided by the Subcontractor.
GENERAL CONDITIONS OF SCOPE:
1. BCA 2013 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
2. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority, concerning maximum noise levels, sedimentation control and control of dust. 
3. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
4. The Subcontractor shall ensure that vehicles leaving the site do so in a condition that is in accordance with the Site Environmental Management Plan and EPA requirements.
5. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Contractor. 
6. The Principal will provide one datum and two set out points for the subcontractor to work off. No other surveying will be provided.
7. All set out and control of levels is by the subcontractor utilising the datum provided by the Contractor.
8. Supervision of all Works to the required standard by personnel licensed and registered as required by statutory regulations and to the satisfaction of the Contractor.
9. Coordination and installation of the Subcontract Works with all preceding and following trades.
10. The Subcontractor shall ensure all of the Subcontractor’s personnel are inducted into the Subcontractor’s safety plan and have undertaken training and are competent in all tasks and work procedures.
11. All Subcontractor personnel are to attend Site “toolbox talks” / safety briefs as required at the Principal’s discretion (minimum 1 x weekly and as nominated in the Principals Project Site Safety Plan.
12. All electrical equipment required to carry out these Works must carry tags in conformance with the Workplace Health and Safety Act which includes provisions for monthly checks on all electrical equipment.  Electrical registers to be supplied and maintained.
13. All mobile plant and equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply and safety Authority requirements and be maintained in a first class condition at all times.  The Subcontractor is to keep records of maintenance and provide records to the Contractor on request. Copies of last major service records and daily/weekly operator’s checklists to be supplied to the Contractor prior to use.
14. Supply all necessary material safety data sheets, risk assessments, safe work method statements and training records prior to commencement on Site.
15. It is a mandatory Site requirement that, in addition to safety boots, hi-visibility clothing and hard hats, all employees are to wear long pants and long sleeve clothing whilst on Site.  
16. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required for their work tasks.  
17. The Subcontractor is to remove their own rubbish at the end of each day from the work area and place in bins provided by the Principal. The Subcontractor shall empty rubbish into these bins on a regular basis The Subcontractor is responsible to provide their own wheelie bins to transport rubbish to Principal supplied bins. The Subcontractor shall dispose of all waste material in an approved manner. No material whatsoever including building fittings and fixtures shall be disposed of in non Contractor approved bins
18. Provide labourers, brooms, shovels, wheelbarrows/wheelie bins etc for regular Site clean ups at the request of the Principal. Should the Subcontractor fail to adhere to regular Site cleanups, the Principal will supply labour and equipment at the Subcontractor’s expense.
19. Provide an installation certificate in the form required by the Contractor certifying that the materials and workmanship installed in the Subcontract Works comply with:-
· The Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Australian Standards and good engineering practice covering the installation;
· The requirements of the Subcontract Documents and that the installation is suitable for the intended purpose;
· Completion of all defects and outstanding Works under the Subcontract.

EXCLUSIONS:

· All detailed excavation for demountable footings.
· All concrete works for demountable footings including formwork and steel reinforcement.
· Structural engineer design and inspections.
· 
· As built drawings.
· 



