THE PROJECT
MECHANICAL 
SCOPE OF WORKS


Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a design and construct subcontract and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant, tools and equipment necessary to design, document, manufacture, deliver,  install and certify the complete MECHANICAL works required for complete and functioning buildings, fit for there purpose, In its entirety to drawings and Specifications and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practice, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities as generally described below including but not limited to: 
The following Clauses shall be read in conjunction with the drawings and specifications, available on the Contractors document register website (FTP) and other relevant documents which make up this subcontract to ascertain the total works. Where there are discrepancies, between Architectural, Structural and Subcontractor shop drawings the Architectural drawings will take precedence, followed by shop drawings. 

The Subcontractor is deemed to but not limited to:
1. Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Contractor to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.
2. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
3.  Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
4. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.
INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW:
The project, Central Facilities is located at the site and will be the central hub for a two hundred, individual cabin, beach resort.

Central facilities consist of five separate buildings numbered one to five:

· Building 1 holds the pool café and bar, two multi purpose rooms and kitchen.
· Building 2 consist of the port-cochere, reception, foyer, restaurant, main kitchen, conference centre and admin offices.
· Building 3 is the day spa and gym.
· Building 4 is housekeeping.
· Building 5 is the pool plantroom.

Central facilities also has a 1000m2 swimming pool and spa.
Buildings 1, 2 and 3 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground in a raft design
· Structural steel frame with composite purlins
· Aluminium framed glazing and doors
· Aluminium roofing

Building 4 and 5 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground
· Blockwork
· Steel frames and timber trusses
· Metal roof

DESCRIPTION OF WORK AREA:
The scope of work includes but is not limited to the following principal areas: -
· All mechanical services to all building areas including the lobby, common areas and all back of house areas including air conditioning and mechanical ventilation systems.
· Mechanical electrical services etc such as the mechanical main switchboard, control panels and the like.
· Coordination with A/V subcontractors control system for conference rooms and MPR.
· Supply and installation of all wiring between air conditioning services switchboards and air conditioning services equipment. Include all leak detection requirements and shut off as required for BCA/AS compliance.
· All associated plant equipment required to complete the works.
· Supply and install the acoustic and vibration separation between major plant and the primary building structure.
· All support metal work / bracketry is to be provided by the Subcontractor. With approved supports/fixings to structure.
· Supply and install internal fixed louvers.
· Supply and install external bathroom exhaust fixed louvers.
· Relay for fire control of equipment.
· All fire dampers required on duct passing through fire wall on grid 17.
· All safe trays and insulated condensate drains to tundishes.
· Supply only door grilles as necessary.
· kitchen extract ductwork to kitchens as detailed on the kitchen consultant’s drawings and spec.
· Pizza bar, pizza oven exhaust system including fan,ductwork and  lagging .

SPECIFIC INCLUSIONS
INSURANCE
Provide Work Cover as per one of the below options:
1. NSW Work Cover Policy.
2. Written confirmation from the workers compensation insurer that this specific project is covered for the duration of the works.
PROGRAM
Contractor's Program
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that: 
1. it has carefully reviewed the Principals program or proposed program for the project; and 
2. it is able to and shall perform its obligations consistently with any such program. 
Amended Program
If the Principal's program is updated, amended or replaced the Subcontractor shall take whatever action is necessary to perform its obligations consistently with any such program (without becoming obliged to accelerate the whole of the work under the Subcontract so as to bring forward the Date for Practical Completion). The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any Claim arising out of or in connection with the effects of the Principal's program being updated, amended or replaced.  The Contractordoes not warrant that the project or any other work will be carried out consistently with the Principal's program.
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that it has a clear understanding of the allowances for delay made in the Principal's program and has included in its program such delay allowances as it considers necessary. If any such allowances prove inadequate and/or actual delays exceed allowances, then the Subcontractor shall reduce the net duration of its activities accordingly and the Subcontractor has allowed for that reduction, without being entitled to any Claim.
Completion on Time
The Subcontractor shall achieve Practical Completion by the Date for Practical Completion.
TESTING, INSPECTIONS AND WARRANTIES

1. The Subcontractor shall supply all test certificates for applications, fixings and the like and as required to satisfy the Contractor or Client. 
2. The Subcontractor should accept delivery and check condition of materials prior to installation.
3. The Subcontractor shall obtain certification from the manufacturers of each material and that the material is of correct grade, strength, size, etc.
MANUFACTURE, STORAGE AND MATERIALS HANDLING

1. All materials handling will be by the Subcontractor.
2. The Subcontractor must provide all trade specific handling equipment for movement and installation of their work. 

DESIGN & CO-ORDINATION
1. Production of design and working drawings. Mechanical subcontractor will take lead in services coordination during both Design and Working drawing phases. 
2. Workshop, builders work and As Installed Drawings to be provided.
3. Workshop drawings to a scale of 1:50 of all builders’ works required. Builders work not detailed in sufficient time to meet the construction program shall be at the subcontractors cost.
4. Safety in Design – the subcontractor shall be responsible for compliance with the Workplace Health and Safety Obligations of Designers or Structures and also with the review process undertaken by the Contractor to ensure compliance.
5. The Mechanical Services are a full design and construct package and the Subcontractor is deemed to allow for this. Although items may not be fully described in the documentation provided but is required as part of the Mechanical Services package it is deemed as to be included. 
6. The Subcontractor is responsible for completion of full design drawings, including calculations, sizing, co-ordination, diagrammatic and schematics, etc.
7. The performance of the Subcontract works including, but not limited to, design, fabrication and installation, testing and commissioning (including inter-system commissioning and interfacing) remains entirely with the Subcontractor.
8. Notwithstanding any comments made or omitted during the review process the Subcontractor shall also be responsible for ensuring that the design, manufacture, fabrication, installation and all other subcontract works outlined in this scope of works complies with all relevant standards, codes and codes of practice.
9. Attendance at all co-ordination and design meetings required.
INSTALLATION
1. Detailed set out of equipment, conduit turn ups, non formed penetrations etc based on building grid lines.
2. Setting out and marking any services to be cut into plasterboard or ceiling soffits.
3. Provision of any non-formed penetrations and core holes.
4. Clean all services prior to handover of the installation.
5. Touch up all damaged paintwork and clean out the control panels and tee polish all external surfaces of cubicles and panels prior to handover.
6. Metalwork/support, including noggins, and water proofing around any devices as required.
7. Labelling of Boards, circuits, outlets and equipment to best practice.
8. All necessary reticulation, cabling and cable management systems (vertical and horizontal) and associated supports.
9. Provision of flow markers as required.
10. Provision of structural sub members required for support of plant and equipment.
11. Capping and sealing of redundant services. 
12. Allow to provide suitable sealant and make good around penetrations associated with the works. Material used should be in accordance with the relevant standards and authority requirements.
13. All rubbish removal on a daily basis to bins provided by the Contractor. 
14. Provide all task specific access equipment, scaffolding, signage, barricades, access ways, safe access to all areas and task lighting.
15. Full time on-site supervision for the duration of the works.
16. Provide all labour and material to complete the mechanical/ventilation works. Some items may not be covered in the scope of works but will be deemed to be included.
17. Continuity of works, whilst an objective, is not guaranteed at any time.
18. The Subcontractor will allow for all coordination with other adjacent trades affecting the work to ensure best practice design and installation is effected.
19. Minimal storage is available on site.
20. It is the responsibility of the Subcontractor to co-ordinate their work with that of other trades and the project works as a whole. No additional costs will be considered by the Contractor for any co-ordination problems or costs throughout the duration of the works.
Specifically:
· Concreter for all cast in sleeves etc
· Services subcontractors
· Blockwork contractor
· Finishing trades
21. Attend co-ordination meetings with the Contractors subcontractors and designers as required.
TESTING COMMISIONING & HANDOVER
1. Maintenance during the defect liability period to include preventative maintenance in accordance with Australian Standards. This to include final signoff of all essential fire services prior to expiry of the DLP. 
2. Provide all testing and commissioning and demonstrate compliance of the installations to the satisfaction of the building certifier and local authorities.
3. Certification; Provision of design and installation certification prior to Practical Completion in a timely manner
4. Testing and commissioning including attendance at intersystem commissioning tests.
5. Operating and Maintenance Manuals.
6. Client Training
7. All subcontractor installed elements shall be “Trade Cleaned” prior to handover to the Contractor. A trade clean shall include the removal from the works of any pencil marks, stickers, excess sealant etc. At the completion of the trade clean only cleaning as would normally be expected for the ongoing maintenance on the building shall remain. The Contractor must sign off and approve this has been carried out prior to Practical Completion being approved.
8. Provide all warranties to the Contractor the name of the Client.

GENERAL CONDITIONS (ALL SUBCONTRACTORS):
1. BCA 2014 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
2. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority, concerning maximum noise levels, sedimentation control and control of dust. 
3. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
4. The Subcontractor shall ensure that vehicles leaving the site do so in a condition that is in accordance with the Site Environmental Management Plan and EPA requirements.
5. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Contractor. 
6. The Contractor will provide one datum and two set out points for the subcontractor to work off. No other surveying will be provided.
7. Supervision of all Works to the required standard by personnel licensed and registered as required by statutory regulations and to the satisfaction of the Principal.
8. Coordination and installation of the Subcontract Works with all preceding and following trades.
9. The Subcontractor shall ensure all of the Subcontractor’s personnel are inducted into the Subcontractor’s safety plan and have undertaken training and are competent in all tasks and work procedures.
10. All Subcontractor personnel are to attend Site “toolbox talks” / safety briefs as required at the Principal’s discretion (minimum 1 x weekly and as nominated in the Principals Project Site Safety Plan.
11. All electrical equipment required to carry out these Works must carry tags in conformance with the Workplace Health and Safety Act which includes provisions for monthly checks on all electrical equipment.  Electrical registers to be supplied and maintained.
12. All mobile plant and equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply and safety Authority requirements and be maintained in a first class condition at all times.  The Subcontractor is to keep records of maintenance and provide records to the Contractor on request. Copies of last major service records and daily/weekly operator’s checklists to be supplied to the Contractor prior to use.
13. Supply all necessary material safety data sheets, risk assessments, safe work method statements and training records prior to commencement on Site.
14. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required for their work tasks.  
15. The Subcontractor is to remove their own rubbish at the end of each day from the work area and place in bins provided by the Principal. The Subcontractor shall empty rubbish into these bins on a regular basis The Subcontractor is responsible to provide their own wheelie bins to transport rubbish to Contractor supplied bins. The Subcontractor shall dispose of all waste material in an approved manner. No material whatsoever including building fittings and fixtures shall be disposed of in non-Contractor approved bins
16. Provide labourers, brooms, shovels, wheelbarrows/wheelie bins etc for regular Site clean ups at the request of the Principal. Should the Subcontractor fail to adhere to regular Site lean-ups, the Contractor will supply labour and equipment at the Subcontractor’s expense.
17. Provide an installation certificate in the form required by the Contractor certifying that the materials and workmanship installed in the Subcontract Works comply with:-
· The Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Australian Standards and good engineering practice covering the installation;
· The requirements of the Subcontract Documents and that the installation is suitable for the intended purpose;
· Completion of all defects and outstanding Works under the Subcontract.

18. Kitchen exhaust prices are based on standard hoods (specification yet to be confirmed)
19. AC Equipment removed from tender price


EXCLUSIONS:

· Survey grids and height datum’s
· Perimeter scaffolding 
· Aluminium louvers to façade within glazing frame.
· Kitchen hoods
· Cold/freezer rooms
· Fridges and remote condensers
· Structural steel
· Fire control of equipment
· Conference room controls
· Discharge cowls for A.C and Exhaust System
· Fire place flues
· Power to toilet exhaust fans


SUBCONTRACT SUM BREAKDOWN

	ITEM NO.
	DESCRIPTION
	SUBCONTRACT VALUE

	
	
	

	
	Building 1
	

	1.0
	A/C and toilet exhaust
	$____

	2.0
	Kitchen exhaust and make up air
	$____

	3.0
	Comms room unit
	$____

	
	
	

	
	Building 2A (from plantroom 2)
	

	1.0
	A/C and toilet exhaust
	$____

	2.0
	Kitchen exhaust
	$____

	4.0
	Comms room unit
	$____

	5.0
	Pack unit increase for larger conference rooms
	$____

	
	
	

	
	Building 2B (from plantroom 3 (2 pipe VRF heat pump)
	

	1.0
	A/C and toilet exhaust
	$____

	2.0
	Pizza oven duct flue and fan
	$____

	3.0
	A/C to private dining
	$____

	4.0
	Dishwasher exhaust system
	$____

	5.0
	Fire dampers to grid 17 firewall
	$____

	
	
	

	
	Building 3
	

	1.0
	A/C and toilet exhaust
	$____

	2.0
	Gym A/C 
	$____

	
	
	

	
	Building 4
	

	1.0
	A/C and toilet exhaust
	$____

	
	
	

	
	Controls
	

	1.0
	Central controller for VRF systems for building 1, 2 and 3
	$____

	
	
	

	
	DESIGN FEES 
	$____

	
	
	

	
	
	

	
	TOTAL Excl GST
	$____

	
	
	

	
	
	




 



