	THE PROJECT
MECHANICAL
SCOPE OF WORKS


Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a construct subcontract and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant and equipment necessary to document, manufacture, supply, install and certify the complete Mechanical Services required for complete and functioning buildings, fit for its purpose, In its entirety to drawings and Specifications and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practise, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities as generally described below including but not limited to: 

The subcontractor is deemed to, but not limited to, have:
1. Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Principal to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.
1. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
1.  Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
1. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.

SPECIFIC INCLUSIONS:
1. The following specifies the mechanical services basic requirements but is not intended to describe all aspects of the mechanical services in detail or mechanical services requirements. Any performance requirements or equipment details which are not specifically described in the following but is required for the complete design, installation, operation and Authority Certification of the mechanical services shall be provided and shall be included as part of the Subcontract Works.
2. Document, fabricate, supply, deliver, unload, handle, hoist, install and certify the following mechanical services items in accordance with the Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Building Services Authority requirements, Building Code of Australia, Australian Standards and good building practice:-
a.  All air conditioning systems to switchroom and comms room.
b. Pipework, fire rated sleeves and lagging;
c. Ductwork including straight and curved;
d. Special connections and joints to ductwork including connections between ducting of differing materials, connections between ducting and equipment, isolated joints (such as flange joints in ducts with slide and drive joints), and flexible connections between ducting and plant;
e. Ductwork items such as stop ends, bends, offsets, diminishing pieces, change of section pieces, junction pieces, shoes, nozzle outlets, specially design brackets or hangers, and similar items;
f. Manually operated regulating dampers and louvers in ducts, vanes, turning vanes, test holes and covers, access doors, openings other than for branches, and similar items;
g. Mechanically operated regulating damper units, special damper units and fire dampers including operating motors with linkage, fusible links and integral operating gear;
h. Louvre and butterfly back draught shutters, grilles, diffusers, diffusers with special dampers, deflectors, equalisers, anti-smudge rings and similar items;
i. Cowls, terminals and similar items;
j. Loose keys, tools, spare parts and similar items;
k. Control systems including electric, electronic, pneumatic and similar control systems including preparation and submission of design data for approval;
3. Balancing and commissioning of all new air conditioning installations.
4. Sockets, running joints, nipples and pipe duct fixings such as supporting clips, connections, back nuts, incidental fittings, clips, saddles, fixings, brackets, straps, hangers, screws, nails, explosive and low velocity tool fasteners and other metal fastening anchors and/or systems and fixing complete including cutting and forming holes, supplying and building in sleeves (including fire rated sleeves) and other similar items.
5. Marking pipes, ductwork, equipment and other similar items with colour bands, tags, plates, badges or letting for identification purposes, or with arrows for indicating directions of flow for each type of installation.
6. Wiring and programming of the new controls system for the mechanical services and associated interfaces with other trade systems.
7. Apply protective coating to all copper pipework passing through concrete walls and floors.
8. Sealant around perimeter of grilles to ensure there are no gaps.
9. Electrical and controls installations for mechanical plant.
10. Supply and installation of electrical cabling for the mechanical services Works other than cabling detailed on the electrical drawings which is being provided by the Principals electrical services subcontractor.
11. Provide equipment loads information to the Principals electrical subcontractor to size cables, mains supply, sub-mains, boards and protection devices.
12. Mechanical control panels (MCP’s) and wiring to the mechanical services equipment as required to comply with AS1668 and/or other standards/Authority requirements.
13. Supply and install all cowls, weather grilles, louvres, sills, flashings, and similar items as required at all discharge and intake points forming an integral part of the mechanical/air-conditioning works and take responsibility to ensure such are watertight.
14. Condensate safe trays to packaged air conditioning units.
15. Supply and install all insulation and lagging materials to ductwork and chilled water lines. Provide all thermal and acoustic insulation required and as necessary including isolation mounts, diaphragms, lagging etc. The Subcontractor shall take responsibility and work with the Principal to ensure design and installation is adequate to meet the requirements of the Subcontract Documents, Head Contract Works and in particular the acoustic requirements.
16. Provide adequate access panels in ductwork as necessary and co-ordinate access panel locations in all suspended ceilings and walls.
17. Sealing of all penetrations through walls, floors, beams or the like.  The method and material used to seal penetrations shall be such that the fire and/or acoustic rating of the element is maintained.  Certificates of compliance to be provided.
18. All external fixings to be stainless steel.

INSTALLATION:
19. Detailed set out of equipment, conduit turn ups, non-formed penetrations etc.
20. Setting out and marking any services to be cut into plasterboard or ceiling soffits.
21. Provision of any non-formed penetrations and core holes.
22. Clean all services prior to handover of the installation.
23. Touch up all damaged paintwork and clean out the control panels and tee polish all external surfaces of cubicles and panels prior to handover.
24. Structural bracing/support, including noggins, and water proofing around any devices as required.
25. Labelling of Boards, circuits, outlets and equipment to best practice and to relevant standards.
26. The Subcontractor is to allow for all work associated with making safe the work areas prior to demolition (as required). This will require the subcontractor to provide a signed off document to the Principal and the Demolish Subcontractor that the work area has been isolated for all associated / relevant services.
27. All necessary reticulation, cabling and cable management systems (vertical and horizontal) and associated supports.
28. Provision of over flashings required to ensure water proofing of all penetrations through the building structure, to the standard directed by the Principal. Under flashings by the Principal.
29. Structural bracing/support for any shaft / riser containment.
30. Provision of structural sub members required for support of plant and equipment.
31. Capping and sealing of redundant services. 
32. Allow to provide suitable sealant and make good around penetrations associated with the works . Material used should be in accordance with the relevant standards and authority requirements.
33. All rubbish removal on a regular basis to bins provided by the Principal. The Subcontractor must place all rubbish in the appropriate recycling bins.
34. Provide and maintain suitable access ramps, paths, etc. complying with all authority requirements for equipment and workers in order to reach all trade specific work areas on site.
35. Provide all task specific access equipment, scaffolding, signage, barricades, access ways, safe access to all areas and task lighting.
36. On-site supervision for the duration of the works.
37. Provide all labour and material to complete the works. Some items may not be covered in the scope of works but will be deemed to be included.
38. Include for the works associated with the staging requirements
39. Continuity of works is not guaranteed at any time.
40. The Subcontractor will allow for all coordination with other adjacent trades affecting the work to ensure best practice design and installation s effected.
41. Subcontractor must provide all materials handling both vertically and horizontally.
42. Minimal storage is available on site.
43. All required access equipment is to be provided by the Subcontractor, complete with certification as necessary and suitable trained and competent personnel to operate / erect any such equipment.
44. It is the responsibility of the Subcontractor to co-ordinate their work with that of other trades and the project works as a whole. No additional costs will be considered by the Principal for any co-ordination problems or costs throughout the duration of the works. Specifically:
a. Concreter for all cast in sleeves etc
b. Services subcontractors
c. Blockwork contractor
d. Finishing trades
45. Attend co-ordination meetings with the Principals Subcontractors and designers as required.
46. Any site storage / office facilities required for the works to be provided by the Subcontractor.

TESTING COMMISSIONING & HANDOVER:

1. Maintenance during the defect liability period to include preventative maintenance in accordance with Australian Standards. 
2. Certificate of Compliance - Provide all testing and commissioning and demonstrate compliance of the installations to the satisfaction of the building certifier and local authorities, the local council, FRNSW, and the client.
3. Testing and commissioning of all mechanical systems including attendance at intersystem commissioning tests.
4. Commissioning Manual
5. Operating and Maintenance Manuals
6. Building User’s Guide
7. Client Training
8. Includes all testing equipment as required, and for all demonstrations to the Principal, FRNSW, authorities, etc as necessary. 
9. All subcontractor installed elements shall be “Trade Cleaned” prior to handover to the Principal. A trade clean shall include the removal from the works of any pencil marks, stickers, excess sealant etc. At the completion of the trade clean only cleaning as would normally be expected for the ongoing maintenance on the building shall remain. The Principal must sign off and approve this has been carried out prior to Practical Completion being approved.
10. Provide all warranties to the Principal.
11. The systems, including all interfacing is required to meet the approval of the consultants, authorities, Certifier, FRNSW (if necessary) and the Principal.
12. The subcontractor is to provide a commissioning programme which is to be used to produce an integrated commissioning programme.

GENERAL CONDITIONS OF SCOPE:
1. BCA 2013 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
1. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority, concerning maximum noise levels, sedimentation control and control of dust. 
1. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
1. The Subcontractor shall ensure that vehicles leaving the site do so in a condition that is in accordance with the Site Environmental Management Plan and EPA requirements.
1. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Principal. 
1. The Principal will provide one datum and two set out points for the subcontractor to work off. No other surveying will be provided.
1. Supervision of all Works to the required standard by personnel licensed and registered as required by statutory regulations and to the satisfaction of the Principal.
1. Coordination and installation of the Subcontract Works with all preceding and following trades.
1. The Subcontractor shall ensure all of the Subcontractor’s personnel are inducted into the Subcontractor’s safety plan and have undertaken training and are competent in all tasks and work procedures.
1. All Subcontractor personnel are to attend Site “toolbox talks” / safety briefs as required at the Principal’s discretion (minimum 1 x weekly and as nominated in the Principals Project Site Safety Plan.
1. All electrical equipment required to carry out these Works must carry tags in conformance with the Workplace Health and Safety Act which includes provisions for monthly checks on all electrical equipment.  Electrical registers to be supplied and maintained.
1. All mobile plant and equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply and safety Authority requirements and be maintained in a first class condition at all times.  The Subcontractor is to keep records of maintenance and provide records to the Principal on request. Copies of last major service records and daily/weekly operator’s checklists to be supplied to the Principal prior to use.
1. Supply all necessary material safety data sheets, risk assessments, safe work method statements and training records prior to commencement on Site.
1. It is a mandatory Site requirement that, in addition to safety boots, hi-visibility clothing and hard hats, all employees is to wear long pants and long sleeve clothing whilst on Site.  
1. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required for their work tasks.  
1. The Subcontractor is to remove their own rubbish at the end of each day from the work area and place in bins provided by the Principal. The Subcontractor shall empty rubbish into these bins on a regular basis The Subcontractor is responsible to provide their own wheelie bins to transport rubbish to Principal supplied bins. The Subcontractor shall dispose of all waste material in an approved manner. No material whatsoever including building fittings and fixtures shall be disposed of in non-Principal approved bins
1. Provide labourers, brooms, shovels, wheelbarrows/wheelie bins etc for regular Site clean ups at the request of the Principal. Should the Subcontractor fail to adhere to regular Site cleanups, the Principal will supply labour and equipment at the Subcontractor’s expense.
1. Provide an installation certificate in the form required by the Principal certifying that the materials and workmanship installed in the Subcontract Works comply with:-
17. The Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Australian Standards and good engineering practice covering the installation;
17. The requirements of the Subcontract Documents and that the installation is suitable for the intended purpose;
17. Completion of all defects and outstanding Works under the Subcontract.

EXCLUSIONS:

1. Access panels through ceilings and walls including installation or supply.
2. Hydraulic tundishes for condensation drains.
3. BMS/control monitoring system for mechanical plant.
4. Any materials or labour in concrete plinth construction.
5. Connection or installation of fire equipment and trip signal.
6. Under or over flashing of mechanical penetrating through roof.


