THE PROJECT
Painting
SCOPE OF WORKS

Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a construct subcontract and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant, tools and equipment necessary to design, document, manufacture, deliver,  install and certify the complete Painting works required for complete and functioning buildings, fit for there purpose, In its entirety to drawings and Specifications and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practice, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities as generally described below including but not limited to: 
The following Clauses shall be read in conjunction with the drawings and specifications, available on the Contractors document register website (FTP) and other relevant documents which make up this subcontract to ascertain the total works. Where there are discrepancies, between Architectural, Structural and Subcontractor shop drawings the Architectural drawings will take precedence, followed by shop drawings. 

The Subcontractor is deemed to but not limited to:
1. Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Contractor to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.
2. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
3.  Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
4. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.
GENERAL INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW OF PROJECT:
The project, Central Facilities is located at the site and will be the central hub for a two hundred, individual cabin, beach resort.

Central facilities consist of five separate buildings numbered one to five:
· Building 1 holds the pool café and bar, two multi purpose rooms and kitchen.
· Building 2 consist of the port-cochere, reception, foyer, restaurant, main kitchen, conference centre and admin offices.
· Building 3 is the day spa and gym.
· Building 4 is housekeeping.
· Building 5 is the pool plantroom.

Central Facilities also has a 1000m2 swimming pool and spa.
Buildings 1, 2 and 3 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground in a raft design
· Structural steel frame with composite purlins
· Aluminium framed glazing and doors
· Aluminium roofing

Building 4 and 5 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground
· Blockwork
· Steel frames and timber trusses
· Metal roof

PROJECT TRADE SPECIFIC EXTENT OF WORKS:
The scope of work includes but is not limited to the following principal areas: -
1. The Subcontractor shall paint all internal plasterboard, villaboard walls and ceilings, in Building 1, 2, 3 and 4 in a 3 coat system (excluding Conference Room Ceiling and Walls and additional coats for feature wall colours).
2. The Subcontractor shall paint all doors, architraves, skirting, timber window reveals, timber sills and roller door jambs
3. The Subcontractor has allowed to paint Building 4 external surfaces: Paint all cladding, soffits, fascia linings, external timber doors and steel framing, including roller and sliding door jambs, and PVC downpipes
4. The Subcontractor shall apply sealer coat to walls behind fixed joinery
5. The Subcontractor shall carry out full preparation of all services to receive paint finishes prior to application including filling, rubbing down, priming, sealing, gapping and all other preparatory work as required, to a finish as required by Australian Standard and in accordance with the project’s paint and texture coating supplier specifications and manufacturers warranties, for which paint is to be applied.
6. The Subcontractor shall protect, from paint, all previous trades works including but not limited to the following, windows, joinery items, tiles etc
7. The Subcontractor shall remove protection and dispose of in skip bins
8. The Subcontractor is to mask and cut in paintwork around all electrical & plumbing fittings, switchboards, glass inserts to doors etc
9. The Subcontractor shall provide and maintain washout facility for cleaning of paint equipment to comply with Local Authority and environmental laws
10. The Subcontractor shall paint to tops and underside of all doors, tops and bottoms of doors to receive 3 coats minimum or as per door manufacturers specifications
11. The Subcontractor shall paint all gaping & sealing, as required (excludes cabinetry and tiling) 
12. The Subcontractor shall paint all plasterboard, ceilings, villaboard walls including cornices in a 3 coat system. 
13. The Subcontractor is to supply all associated paint, caulking, brushes, rollers and equipment to carry out scope of works
14. The Subcontractor shall report to the builder’s Site Manager, of any defective substrates promptly. The Subcontractor shall not paint over defective substrates, if so, paint rectification works will be bourne by the Subcontractor
15. The Subcontractors hourly rate to carry out works to areas that are excluded in this scope is $____+gst per hour
16. The Subcontractor shall carry out defective painting, at their own cost.
17. The Subcontractor has not allowed for Level 5 paint finish
18. All other painting works to the project to be on provision of invoice for materials delivered to site ( delivery dockets to be provided) & signed daily day labour sheets identifying area painted . Note strict control of a day labour method needs to be agreed with the client re the separation of day labour works & the priced works before commencement, OR alternatively the balance of the works are to be priced lump sum



GENERAL INCLUSIONS:
INSURANCE
Provide Work Cover as per one of the below options:
1. NSW Work Cover Policy.
2. Written confirmation from the workers compensation insurer that this specific project is covered for the duration of the works.
PROGRAM
Contractor's Program
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that: 
1. it has carefully reviewed the Principals program or proposed program for the project; and 
2. it is able to and shall perform its obligations consistently with any such program. 
Amended Program
If the Principal's program is updated, amended or replaced the Subcontractor shall take whatever action is necessary to perform its obligations consistently with any such program (without becoming obliged to accelerate the whole of the work under the Subcontract so as to bring forward the Date for Practical Completion). The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any Claim arising out of or in connection with the effects of the Principal's program being updated, amended or replaced.  The Contractor does not warrant that the project or any other work will be carried out consistently with the Principal's program.
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that it has a clear understanding of the allowances for delay made in the Principal's program and has included in its program such delay allowances as it considers necessary. If any such allowances prove inadequate and/or actual delays exceed allowances, then the Subcontractor shall reduce the net duration of its activities accordingly and the Subcontractor has allowed for that reduction, without being entitled to any Claim.
SAMPLES
1. Subcontractor to provide painting samples, if requested. This will then become the workmanship standard for the project.

MANUFACTURE, STORAGE AND MATERIALS HANDLING

1. All materials handling will be by the Subcontractor.
2. The Subcontractor must provide all trade specific handling equipment for movement and installation of their work. All equipment is to be certified by an Independent Engineer.
3. There is minimum storage of materials onsite. Subcontractor is to provide all necessary storage as required at no cost to the Contractor.
HANDOVER
1. The Subcontractor shall allow for all documentation, certification and the like as per contract documentation and specification to the satisfaction of the Contractor prior to Practical Completion.
MAINTENANCE AND WARRANTIES
1. Provision of comprehensive Warranties fit for purpose, for period as required by the below Warranties/Maintenance Schedule. All warranties commence on the Date of Practical Completion for the Head Contract. 
2. The Subcontractor is to allow maintenance for a period of 12 months commencing practical completion of the project for defects liability period.

	Project Central Facilities
Warranties/Maintenance Schedule

	

Trade
	

Warranty
Period years)
	Preventative Maintenance Period

	Caulking
	7
	Nil

	External and Internal Paint Finishes other than
Steelwork
	10
	
Nil




GENERAL CONDITIONS (ALL SUBCONTRACTORS):
1. BCA 2014 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
2. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority, concerning maximum noise levels, sedimentation control and control of dust. 
3. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
4. The Subcontractor shall ensure that vehicles leaving the site do so in a condition that is in accordance with the Site Environmental Management Plan and EPA requirements.
5. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Contractor. 
6. The Contractor will provide one datum and two set out points for the subcontractor to work off. No other surveying will be provided.
7. Supervision of all Works to the required standard by personnel licensed and registered as required by statutory regulations and to the satisfaction of the Principal.
8. Coordination and installation of the Subcontract Works with all preceding and following trades.
9. The Subcontractor shall ensure all of the Subcontractor’s personnel are inducted into the Subcontractor’s safety plan and have undertaken training and are competent in all tasks and work procedures.
10. All Subcontractor personnel are to attend Site “toolbox talks” / safety briefs as required at the Principal’s discretion (minimum 1 x weekly and as nominated in the Principals Project Site Safety Plan.
11. All electrical equipment required to carry out these Works must carry tags in conformance with the Workplace Health and Safety Act which includes provisions for monthly checks on all electrical equipment.  Electrical registers to be supplied and maintained.
12. All mobile plant and equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply and safety Authority requirements and be maintained in a first class condition at all times.  The Subcontractor is to keep records of maintenance and provide records to the Contractor on request. Copies of last major service records and daily/weekly operator’s checklists to be supplied to the Contractor prior to use.
13. Supply all necessary material safety data sheets, risk assessments, safe work method statements and training records prior to commencement on Site.
14. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required for their work tasks.  
15. The Subcontractor is to remove their own rubbish at the end of each day from the work area and place in bins provided by the Principal. The Subcontractor shall empty rubbish into these bins on a regular basis The Subcontractor is responsible to provide their own wheelie bins to transport rubbish to Contractor supplied bins. The Subcontractor shall dispose of all waste material in an approved manner. No material whatsoever including building fittings and fixtures shall be disposed of in non-Contractor approved bins
16. Provide labourers, brooms, shovels, wheelbarrows/wheelie bins etc for regular Site clean ups at the request of the Principal. Should the Subcontractor fail to adhere to regular Site clean-ups, the Contractor will supply labour and equipment at the Subcontractor’s expense.
17. Provide an installation certificate in the form required by the Contractor certifying that the materials and workmanship installed in the Subcontract Works comply with:-
· The Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Australian Standards and good engineering practice covering the installation;
· The requirements of the Subcontract Documents and that the installation is suitable for the intended purpose;
· Completion of all defects and outstanding Works under the Subcontract.

EXCLUSIONS:

External Painting to Building 1, 2, 3, 5
Paint to any pipe work through roofs and or external cladding
Paint to retaining walls or landscape walls
Paint to all exposed structural steel including posts and beams
Paint to any feature walls (if required) as per plans and specifications
Paint to eaves / soffits
Level 5 finish to Skylight Shafts
Scissor Lifts


