
  


      THE PROJECT 

SCOPE OF WORKS

Date: ____

TRADE PACKAGE: REINFORCEMENT PLACEMENT  
SCOPE OF WORKS

The scope of works shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

1. Supply all labour, materials, plant and equipment necessary to complete the Reinforcement Placement and associated works in accordance with the drawings, specifications, construction programme and relevant Australian Standards, Statutory requirements and professional standards including everything necessary for the proper and timely completion in a properly coordinated and safe manner.
2. The works will include but not be limited to, the following

· Place, tie and chair all reinforcing steel (including bar and mesh) for the following:

· Footings and thickenings.
· Ground slabs.

· Lift pit base.

· Walls – lift pit walls, lift shaft and stairwells
· Ramps.

· Suspended slabs.

· Stairs and landings.

· Plinths. 

· Removal of Rebox.

· Agreed Rates

· All reinforcing $____ per tonne including post tensioned slabs

· Fabric mesh (F92 and lighter) $____ per square meter.

· Day labour $____ per hour

· Supply tire-wire

· Supply all reo socks

3. Installation only of required accessories – The Subcontractor is to supply a rate only for installation of all post tensioning anti burst.  The Main Contractor will advise should this be included within Scope of Works upon review.
4. Reinforcement bar shall be laid strictly in accordance with the drawings to the spacing and covers nominated.   Reinforcing bar and mesh shall be laid so as to minimize lapping where possible and shall include for all cutting of mesh sheets as required and the removal of wasteage resulting from the operation.  Include for all lapping and splicing and bar laying sequence as documented.

5. The Subcontractor is to supply and install tie wire.

6. Supply, install and maintain bar reinforcement protection caps for the duration of the project.

7. Supply cutter and bender as necessary – minor site bending and cutting to be included in fixing rates.

8. Supply oxy and acetylene to cut and bend steel.  Bottle trolleys are to be on rubber wheels.  Include all safety equipment and leads, including fire extinguisher.  Oxy cutting is to be at the Engineers discretion only.
9. Include drilling and bars as required for the installation of dowels or tie ins to concrete.

10. Allow for cutting, trimming, adjusting and bracing of reinforcement around penetrations, conduits etc as detailed / required.

11.  Attend on site during all concrete placement operations to ensure the correct cover is maintained at all times allowing concrete to be placed at the correct levels.
12. Supply and install starter bars.  Straighten to the final position all starter bars and the like.

13. Include labour and equipment (magnets, blowers etc) to ensure all excess materials are removed from decks prior to concrete pours.

14. Allow for set out over and above that provided by the Surveyor.  
15. All reinforcing fixing will be subject to inspection and approval by the Main Contractor and / or Structural Engineer.  Rectification of all works where placements and finishing is not to a standard satisfactory to the Main Contractor and or Structural Engineer will be required. 
16. Allow to attend all applicable Engineers inspections.

17. Coordinate and assist in the deliveries, programming and lift of reinforcement by crane to the working deck and subsequent lifting down of any excess reinforcement.  At time of delivery, advise the Site Manager of incorrect deliveries in order to minimize any delays.
18. Provision for coordination with all other relevant Subcontractors is included in these works.

19. All horizontal transportation and movement of materials in and around site is the Subcontractors responsibility.  Craneage and Dogman supplied by the Main Contractor is for vertical movement of materials only.

20. The site is a 6 day workplace. It is the Subcontractors responsibility to supply all labour as necessary to meet the construction program.  

Administration Requirements

21. All progress claims are to include a comprehensive breakdown of the completed works.

22. The issuing of a site instruction does not necessarily deem the work outlined within it to be a variation. The signing of day labour dockets by a builder’s employee does not necessarily deem that work to be a variation.

23. The following drawings and specifications will form part of the contract and have been nominated by the Main Contractor as particularly relevant to your trade or area of responsibility and may require further coordination between the Subcontractor, Main Contractor, relevant Consultant and possible other Subcontractors:

	Specifications
	As per attached schedule register dated ____

	Drawings
	As per attached drawing register dated ____

	Reports
	Traffic Management Plan 
Environmental Management Plan

	Construction

Programme
	____

	Timing / Critical Dates
	TBA

	Labour Rates
	TBA


GENERAL:

1. Should any discrepancies occur between the civil, architectural, structural and services documentation, the Subcontractor shall allow for the most onerous of these discrepancies and seek advice from the Project Manager.

2. All or any works, labour plant and equipment requirements not specifically mentioned herein or shown in the tender or construction documents but are necessary for the proper use and complete performance of the works as its intended use/operation, shall be deemed to be included in the Subcontractors Tender.  

3. It is the Subcontractors responsibility to ensure at all times they are working from the latest issues of consultants and services drawings and other subcontractors shop drawings and schedule of finishes.

4. Note that all variation claims shall only be considered for approval when they are accompanied by an agreed day work sheet signed by the builder’s Site Manager. In addition, note that a signed day work sheet does not necessarily constitute a variation.

5. All horizontal movement of materials is the Subcontractors responsibility – Main Contractor to provide  
6. Include for supply of all equipment necessary to complete the works in a tradesman like manner.  

7. Rubbish to be collected daily in the Subcontractors own bins and then dumped into a common bin provided on site by the builder.  The builder encourages the use of materials ordered to length.  

8. Supervision on site at all times to control plant and labour. Every owner of plant must ensure plant is registered with work cover when required and owners are appropriately qualified. Plant must be fitted with working hazard lights/reversing lights and beepers. 
9. All site access points and storage areas to be subject to the agreement of the Main Contractor.

10. The Subcontractor shall supply their own safety equipments such as harnesses, guard rails, etc. to provide a safe working environment for their workers and others at all times.

11. Subcontractor to wear safety helmet and steel capped boots at all times and safety vests when moving plant is present or works is undertaken near traffic. PPE such as eye protection, hearing protection, safety gloves, masks to be worn when welding, drilling and all other tasks with similar risks.
12. The consumption of or being under the influence of alcohol and illegal drugs on the site is prohibited. 

13. Lunch shed & ablution block will be supplied by the Main Contractor – to be located as deemed best by the Main Contractor.

14. Power will be supplied by the Main Contractor.  

15. Subcontractor to submit a site specific Company Safety Plan within 48 hours of Letter of Acceptance being issued by the builder for approval by the Main Contractor.

16. Site safety in general will be a particular focus of the Main Contractor. The builder intends to operate a safe site and shall actively monitor compliance with your Safe Work Method Statement and any relevant codes, statutes and laws.

17. Attendance at any and all site meetings that may be required for the duration of the project is mandatory by a Subcontractor representative (Supervisor or Site Foreman).

18. Defects Liability period: 12 months.

19. Lump Sum Contract.

20. Subcontract Agreement AS 4901.

21. Sequencing of works to be determined on site – sequence to have no impact on costs.

22. The site is a six (6) day workplace. 

23. It is the subcontractor’s responsibility to supply all labour as necessary to meet the construction programme.
