THE PROJECT
METAL ROOFING – BUILDING 4
SCOPE OF WORKS


Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a construct subcontract and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant, tools and equipment necessary to design, document, manufacture, deliver, install and certify the complete METAL ROOFING WORKS required for complete and functioning buildings, fit for there purpose, In its entirety to drawings and Specifications and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practise, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities as generally described below including but not limited to: 

The subcontractor is deemed to, but not limited to, have:
1. Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Principal to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.
2. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
3.  Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
4. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.

DESCRIPTION OF WORK AREA:
The Subcontractor shall comply with the design criteria (as detailed in the Documents) including structure, wind load, water penetration, energy efficiency and acoustic requirements and provide written confirmation of the same as part of the as built certification.  
· The project – Building 4 
· Supply and fit concealed-fix .48 prepainted steel roofing system including all associated clips
· and fixings.
· Supply and fit safety mesh and bulk insulation blanket.
· Supply and fit prepainted steel (marine grade) flashings.
· Supply and fit prepainted steel (marine grade) gutter system 
· Supply craneage
· Supply and fit edge protection
· Supply working platforms
· Stainless steel powdercoated sump guards
· Supply and fit dry pan/s under roof lights.









SPECIFIC INCLUSIONS
INSURANCE
Provide Work Cover as per one of the below options:
1. NSW Work Cover Policy.
2. Written confirmation from the workers compensation insurer that this specific project is covered for the duration of the works.

PROGRAM
Principal's Program
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that: 
1. it has carefully reviewed the Principals program or proposed program for the project; and 
2. it is able to and shall perform its obligations consistently with any such program. 
Amended Program
If the Principal's program is updated, amended or replaced the Subcontractor shall take whatever action is necessary to perform its obligations consistently with any such program (without becoming obliged to accelerate the whole of the work under the Subcontract so as to bring forward the Date for Practical Completion). The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any Claim arising out of or in connection with the effects of the Principal's program being updated, amended or replaced.  The Principal does not warrant that the project or any other work will be carried out consistently with the Principal's program.
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that it has a clear understanding of the allowances for delay made in the Principal's program and has included in its program such delay allowances as it considers necessary. If any such allowances prove inadequate and/or actual delays exceed allowances, then the Subcontractor shall reduce the net duration of its activities accordingly and the Subcontractor has allowed for that reduction, without being entitled to any Claim.

INCLUSIONS 
1. Provide and fix all necessary cappings, fascia’s, flashings, reglets or saw cutting, vents, decktites, sleeves, underflashings and overflashings, insulation, sarking, trims, sealants, brackets all as required and/or specified in the Subcontract Documents.
2. All insulation to meet the requirements of the specification and section J Energy Efficiency Report.
3. The Subcontractor shall allow for all trims, angles and beading as per the Subcontract Documents, architectural details, drawing design intent and all other items associated with good tradesman like finish.
4. Provide and install all sumps and rail guards. 
5. Allow for access equipment required to complete the works.  This includes completion and submission of all safety documentation and maintenance records required by the relevant standard, code and legislation.
6. Turn-ups or turn downs at eaves, verges, abutments, gutters and similar items
7. Turning ends of sheets up or down across troughs.
8. Valleys to be neatly cut and parallel.
9. Valleys to be open valleys.  
10. Supply and install bird proofing to valleys.
11. Mitres, cut and splayed ends, intersections, special shaped or blocked ends, close cut mitre hips or angles and verges.
12. Welding as required.
13. All painting works required to blend in welds to finished roof sheets.
14. Supply and utilise all necessary clips, fixings and sealants.
15. All accessories used are to be proprietary made and prepainted steel to match the guttering, fascias or barges and similar items.  Painted accessories will not be accepted.
16. Inspect substrate and ensure that this is acceptable prior to commencement.  No claims will be accepted for unsuitable substrate once the Works have commenced.
17. Provide for thermal movement in the roof installation including movement in joints and fastenings all to manufacturer’s requirements.
18. Touch up all scratches, marks and screw heads on completion to match the roof sheeting.
19. Ensure during installation and at the end of the day that cladding and accessories are not left unfixed or loose to prevent storm or wind damage occurring.
20. Supply and fix roof mesh to current Australian Standard, OHS legislative requirements and relevant Codes.
21. All fixtures to be anti-corrosive and must comply with the self drilling fasteners – refer to AS3566.2
22. Protection of the works for the duration of the contract.  No claims for damaged materials will be accepted at any stage of the contract.  Protection shall be removed only as directed by the Contractor, being immediately prior to the final clean of the façade and Substantial Completion.
23. The Subcontractor is to allow for a spotter and appropriate barricading for any exclusion zones required for installation of the works.  The Subcontractor is also to allow for coordination of exclusion zones with other trades working above or below.
24. The Subcontractor shall allow for all labour and supervision costs to work on a number of dedicated work fronts as requested by the Principal to meet programme requirements.
25. Execute the Works in the sequence required by the Principal and allow for any breaks in continuity, out of hours and out of sequence works.
26. Preparation and submission to manufacture, delivery and installation program for agreement with the Principal.  Allow to provide and update short range programmes and attendance to both design and site coordination meetings.
27. The Subcontractor is to allow for typical detail drawings to illustrate details at fascia, ridge and gulley areas of the roof. The Subcontractor is to allow for any additional typical section drawings where necessary for clarification and documentation of roofing section details. 
28. The Subcontractor shall allow to co-ordinate their works with all Subcontractors and in particular the Hydraulic Subcontractor installing the down pipes to the eaves.
29. For all roofs the Subcontractor will not have access to the life line support as this is installed after the roofing has been installed.  The Subcontractor shall ensure that they provide equipment to undertake the work safely, including a proprietary guardrail / handrail and safety mesh. 
30. It must also be ensured that movement joints are installed as per the relevant standards and / or manufacturers requirements.
TESTING AND INSPECTIONS

1. The Subcontractor must ensure all necessary Site measurement is carried out prior to fabrication.
2. The Subcontractor will be responsible for the quantity of materials required for the project.
3. The Subcontractor shall supply all test certificates for applications, fixings and the like and as required to satisfy the Principal or Client. 
HANDOVER

1. The Subcontractor shall allow for all documentation, certification and the like as per contract documentation and specification to the satisfaction of the Principal.

MAINTENANCE AND WARRANTIES

1. Provision of a comprehensive Warranty fit for purpose, for a period of 20 years from Practical Completion.

GENERAL CONDITIONS (ALL SUBCONTRACTORS):
1. BCA 2014 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
2. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority, concerning maximum noise levels, sedimentation control and control of dust. 
3. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
4. The Subcontractor shall ensure that vehicles leaving the site do so in a condition that is in accordance with the Site Environmental Management Plan and EPA requirements.
5. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Principal. 
6. The Principal will provide one datum and two set out points for the subcontractor to work off. No other surveying will be provided.
7. Supervision of all Works to the required standard by personnel licensed and registered as required by statutory regulations and to the satisfaction of the Principal.
8. Coordination and installation of the Subcontract Works with all preceding and following trades.
9. The Subcontractor shall ensure all of the Subcontractor’s personnel are inducted into the Subcontractor’s safety plan and have undertaken training and are competent in all tasks and work procedures.
10. All Subcontractor personnel are to attend Site “toolbox talks” / safety briefs as required at the Principal’s discretion (minimum 1 x weekly and as nominated in the Principals Project Site Safety Plan.
11. All electrical equipment required to carry out these Works must carry tags in conformance with the Workplace Health and Safety Act which includes provisions for monthly checks on all electrical equipment.  Electrical registers to be supplied and maintained.
12. All mobile plant and equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply and safety Authority requirements and be maintained in a first class condition at all times.  The Subcontractor is to keep records of maintenance and provide records to the Principal on request. Copies of last major service records and daily/weekly operator’s checklists to be supplied to the Principal prior to use.
13. Supply all necessary material safety data sheets, risk assessments, safe work method statements and training records prior to commencement on Site.
14. It is mandatory Site requirement that, in addition to safety boots, hi-visibility clothing and hard hats, all employees are to wear long sleeve clothing whilst on Site.  
15. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required for their work tasks.  
16. The Subcontractor is to remove their own rubbish at the end of each day from the work area and place in bins provided by the Principal. The Subcontractor shall empty rubbish into these bins on a regular basis The Subcontractor is responsible to provide their own wheelie bins to transport rubbish to Principal supplied bins. The Subcontractor shall dispose of all waste material in an approved manner. No material whatsoever including building fittings and fixtures shall be disposed of in non-Principal approved bins
17. Provide labourers, brooms, shovels, wheelbarrows/wheelie bins etc for regular Site clean ups at the request of the Principal. Should the Subcontractor fail to adhere to regular Site cleanups, the Principal will supply labour and equipment at the Subcontractor’s expense.
18. Provide an installation certificate in the form required by the Principal certifying that the materials and workmanship installed in the Subcontract Works comply with:-
· The Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Australian Standards and good engineering practice covering the installation;
· The requirements of the Subcontract Documents and that the installation is suitable for the intended purpose;
· Completion of all defects and outstanding Works under the Subcontract.

EXCLUSIONS:

1. Roof purlins.
2. Roof safety system.
3. Leaf gutter guard.
4. Any works to building 1, 2 and 3.
5. Skydomes
6. Scissor Lifts
























