

THE PROJECT
SECURITY SERVICES SCOPE OF WORKS



Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a design and construct subcontract and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant, tools and equipment necessary to document, shop draw, manufacture, deliver, install and certify the complete SECURITY SERVICES required for a complete and functioning resort, fit for its purpose, In its entirety to drawings and Specifications and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practise, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities and as generally described below but not limited
to:


The subcontractor is deemed to, but not limited to, have:

1. Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Contractor to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.

2. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.

3. Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.

4. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and client requirements and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.

INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW:

The project, Central Facilities is located at the site and will be the central hub for a two hundred, individual cabin, beach resort.

Central facilities consist of five separate buildings numbered one to five:

 	Building 1 holds the pool café and bar, two multi purpose rooms and kitchen.
 	Building 2 consist of the port-cochere, reception, foyer, restaurant, main kitchen, conference centre and admin offices.
 	Building 3 is the day spa and gym.
 	Building 4 is housekeeping.
 	Building 5 is the pool plantroom.

Central Facilities also has a 1000m2 swimming pool and spa. Buildings 1, 2 and 3 will be made up of:

 	Slabs on ground in a raft design
 	Structural steel frame with composite purlins
 	Aluminium framed glazing and doors
 	Aluminium roofing


Building 4 and 5 will be made up of:

 	Slabs on ground
 	Blockwork
 	Steel frames and timber trusses
 	Metal roof





Revision ____


DESCRIPTION OF WORK:
Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract, the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant and equipment necessary to carry out, shop draw, commission and certify all of the Electrical Services works to the project, Central Facilities and cabin reticulation.

INCLUSIONS

1.0 INSURANCE

Provide Work Cover as per one of the below options:
1. NSW Work Cover Policy.

2. Written confirmation from the workers compensation insurer that this specific project is covered for the duration of the works.

2.0 PROGRAM

2.1 Contractor's Program
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that:
1. it has carefully reviewed the Contractors program or proposed program for the project; and

2. it is able to and shall perform its obligations consistently with any such program.

2.2 Amended Program
If the Contractor's program is updated, amended or replaced the Subcontractor shall take whatever action is necessary to perform its obligations consistently with any such program (without becoming obliged to accelerate the whole of the work under the Subcontract so as to bring forward the Date for Practical Completion). The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any Claim arising out of or in connection with the effects of the Contractor's program being updated, amended or replaced. The Contractor does not warrant that the project or any other work will be carried out consistently with the Contractor's program.
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that it has a clear understanding of the allowances for delay made in the Contractor's program and has included in its program such delay allowances as it considers necessary. If any such allowances prove inadequate and/or actual delays exceed allowances, then the Subcontractor shall reduce the net duration of its activities accordingly and the Subcontractor has allowed for that reduction, without being entitled to any Claim.

2.3 Completion on Time
The Subcontractor shall achieve Practical Completion by the Date for Practical Completion.

3.0 STANDARD OF WORK AND PERFORMANCE

In addition to any other obligation, representation or warranty, whether statutory or otherwise, the
Subcontractor shall to the satisfaction of the Contractor:

1. design and construct the Works in accordance with the Subcontract:

a) using best work practices; and

b) using materials described in the Subcontract conditions and at minimum hot-dip galvanised fixings and equipment internally and 316 stainless steel fixings and equipment externally, or failing any specific description then of the best quality available which are fit for their intended purpose;

2. ensure that the Works during and after construction comply with all the requirements of or to be inferred from:

a) the Subcontract;

b) the requirements from time to time of the Building Code of Australia and all relevant statutes, codes, delegated legislation and codes published by the Standards Association of Australia; and

c) all relevant Authorities;

3. Exercise utmost good faith and full disclosure to the Contractor in performing its obligations under the Subcontract including without limitation when it makes claims for progress and other payments; and

4. Supply and execute items not expressly mentioned in the Subcontract but which are necessary or usual for work similar to the Works, without being entitled to any Claim.

5. Ensure the entire system and final camera locations are fit for purpose and meet clients requirements.

4.0 TRADE SPECIFIC INCLUSIONS

4.1 General

1. Screws, nails, bolts, nuts, nipples, standard cable fixing or supporting clips, saddles, brackets, straps, rivets, plugs, and similar items, and all incidental accessories at minimum hot-dip galvanised for internal areas and 316 stainless steel for external areas.

2. All fixings to various building surfaces for electrical conduits, fittings, equipment and similar items.

3. Cable carriers including trunking, trays, ladders, stop ends, bends, junctions, offsets, reducers, and similar items.

4. Provide adequate fire rating to security penetrations through fire rated floors and walls to the complete satisfaction of the Local Authority.

5. Identification including marking cables, equipment in racks, wall and ceiling equipment.

6. Tools, spares, loose keys, racks for holding tools and similar items.

7. All equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply Authority and safety Authority requirements. All installation work is to be tested and approved by appropriate Authority as each proportion of the Works is commissioned. Copies of Ready for Tests are to be submitted to the Contractor for his records.

8. Provide details and mark out any holes, required through the building structure to accommodate the security installation.

9. Coordination with all other trades where required including final location coordination with builder.

10. Supply and installation of all conduits, junction boxes, blockouts and the like required to complete the Works and adequate protection of same against damage or displacement during pouring of concrete.

11. Chase floors, walls, and soffits for cabling as approved by the Contractor.

12. Supply and install all fixings and supports for security components.

13. All external fixings to be, minimum, 316 grade stainless steel.

14. Protect and accept responsibility until Practical Completion under the Head Contract

15. Items built into fire rated or acoustic rated walls, floors or ceilings shall be of the same category rating as the walls, floor or ceilings.

4.2 CCTV, Access Control and Duress System

The extent of the Subcontract Works shall also include for, be subject to but not be limited to the following:

1.   This is a design and construct Subcontract with the Subcontractor having full responsibility for all aspects of construction to enable the installation of all components and associated Works to function correctly. The Subcontractor shall ensure that all relevant codes, manufacturers’ recommendations and specifications, local Authority, regulations and current good design and installation practices are complied with.


2. The following specifies the Security services basic requirements but is not intended to describe all aspects of the Security services in detail or Security services requirements. Any performance requirements or equipment details which are not specifically described in the following but is required for the complete installation, operation and Authority Certification of the electrical services shall be provided and shall be included as part of the Subcontract Works.

3. Document, fabricate, supply, deliver, unload, handle, hoist, install and certify the following Security services items in accordance with the Subcontract

Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Building Services Authority requirements, Building Code of Australia, Australian Standards and good building practice:-

 	Licences and software for the complete system
 	Camera poles for both central facilities and cabin reticulation with finish coat to clients requirements
 	Surge protection on both ends of cables for all pole cameras
 	316 stainless steel enclosures at bottom of each camera pole
 	Media converters at each cabin pole
 	Workstations at 2 x locations
 	Cameras as per electrical and consultant drawings
 	Door monitoring devices and complete monitoring as per electrical drawings
 	Duress outlets as per electrical and consultant drawings
 	Boom gate monitoring at 2 x locations

4. GENERAL (CCTV) - Provide an IP Video Surveillance/CCTV system complete with all internal/external cameras, power supplies, monitoring devices, wiring and other equipment and accessories to give a complete and operational installation.

5. GENERAL (Access Control) - Provide an access control system complete with all control panels, power supplies, monitoring devices, wiring and other equipment and accessories to give a complete and operational installation. The system shall provide comprehensive access control allowing multi- site configuration able to be managed by one or more of the connected sites. The system shall provide a means of monitoring only, doors with access control readers.

6. GENERAL (Duress) - Duress calls shall be made by staff from discrete located buttons e.g. under staff/reception desks and shall operate as follows:

 	Duress button pressed
 	Duress alarm registered at staff stations
 	Duress call registered on phone/screen in respective department
 	Duress call registered at designated screen external to department

7. NETWORK CAMERAS - Network cameras are to be provided and installed and shall:

 	Recording of cameras 7 days a week for 28 days
 	Video loss alarm
 	History log of all events
 	Password protection
 	Internet connection for off-site web access
 	PC and monitor at both managers office and housekeeping office
 	IP based cameras
 	Server software
 	Day/Night (colour-black and white) cameras with IR cut filters in key locations

8. COMMISSIONING - As part of the commissioning, ensure all components of the Security system
are adjusted, programmed and are operating to the requirements of the Client’s Representative.

The testing of the Security systems shall be performed with all of the Security system fully operational, to ensure the Security system performance is not affected by external sources.

All users of the Security system shall be trained to a high degree of proficiency. The training shall be structured to provide two levels of expertise: Operator and Manager.

4.3 Electronic Door Locking System

The extent of the Subcontract Works shall also include for, be subject to but not be limited to the following:

 	Supply, install and terminate all electronic door locking system cabling requirements in Central Facilities including gates surrounding the buildings
 	Supply and install all passive equipment such as patch panels
 	Fit-off all card readers
 	Fit-off all power supplies
 	Fit-off all door strikes
 	Fit-off all door hubs
 	Fit-off all relay timers for interfacing to security
 	Terminate and test all head-end equipment

5.0 TESTING AND INSPECTIONS
1. The Subcontractor must ensure all necessary Site measurement is carried out prior to fabrication.

2. The Subcontractor will be responsible for the quantity of materials required for the project.

3. The Subcontractor shall supply all test certificates for applications, fixings and the like and as required to satisfy the Contractor or Client.

4. The Subcontractor should accept delivery and check condition of materials prior to installation.

5. The Subcontractor shall obtain certification from the manufacturers of each material and that the material is of correct grade, strength, size, specification etc.

6.0 PROCUREMENT
1. The Subcontractor must submit samples for approval prior to order being placed.

2. The Subcontractor is to provide detailed lead time durations for the supply of material.

7.0 MANUFACTURE, STORAGE AND MATERIALS HANDLING
1. All materials handling will be by the Subcontractor.

8.0 HANDOVER
1. The Subcontractor shall allow for all documentation, certification and the like as per contract documentation and specification to the satisfaction of the Contractor.

2. The Subcontractor has allowed for training of the Clients building manager in the usage and maintenance of the Security sysetm during the twelve months maintenance period allowed for under this Subcontract.
