THE PROJECT
STRUCTURAL STEEL RIGGING
SCOPE OF WORKS


Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a construct only subcontract and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant, tools and equipment necessary to document, manufacture, install and certify the complete STRUCTURAL STEEL RIGGING WORKS required for a complete and functioning buildings, fit for there purpose, In its entirety to drawings and Specifications and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practise, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities as generally described below including but not limited to: 
The following Clauses shall be read in conjunction with the drawings and specifications, available on the Contractors document register website (FTP) and other relevant documents which make up this subcontract to ascertain the total works. Where there are discrepancies, between Architectural, Structural and Subcontractor shop drawings the Subcontractors shop drawings will take precedence, followed by Structural drawings. 

1. Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Contractor to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.
2. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
3.  Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
4. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.
INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW:
The project, Central Facilities is located at the site and will be the central hub for a two hundred, individual cabins beach resort.

Central facilities consist of five separate buildings numbered one to five:

· Building 1 holds the pool café and a small conference centre.
· Building 2 consist of the port-cochere, reception, foyer, restaurant, main kitchen, conference centre and admin offices.
· Building 3 is the day spa and gym.
· Building 4 is housekeeping.
· Building 5 is the pool plantroom and tenant laundry.

Central facilities also has a 1000m2 swimming pool and spa.
Buildings 1, 2 and 3 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground in a raft design
· Structural steel frame with composite purlins
· Aluminium framed glazing and doors
· Aluminium roofing

Building 4 and 5 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground
· Blockwork
· Timber frames and trusses
· Metal roof

DESCRIPTION OF WORK AREA:
The scope of work includes but is not limited to the following principal areas: -
Rigging and cranage of the structural steel for buildings 1, 2 and 3:
· Roof frame
· Window and door heads
· Operable wall portal frames
· Structural steel for kitchen hoods
· Structural steel for architectural accessories I.E. ceiling fans, hanging artwork etc.

SPECIFIC INCLUSIONS
INSURANCE
Provide Work Cover as per one of the below options:
1. NSW Work Cover Policy.
2. Written confirmation from the workers compensation insurer that this specific project is covered for the duration of the works.
DESIGN
1. The Subcontractor has full design responsibilities for all temporary works to complete the scope of works.
2. The Subcontractor shall provide design documents including but not limited to, Shop Drawings, to the Contractor for approval prior to the installation of the works.
3. The Subcontractor shall provide technical support, liaison and coordinate with the design team as required.
4. The Subcontract is to provide a design certificate signed by a NSW registered practicing engineer, with the design, prior to the installation of the works.
5. The Subcontractor shall provide signed certification from a NSW registered practicing engineer for the “as Built” works prior to Practical Completion.
6. The Subcontractor shall verify and confirm all “as built” dimensions and measurements and set out on site for all floor and support RL’s, Allow for normal structural and other construction tolerances.
7. The Subcontractor is to comply with all relevant Australian Standards, Building Codes and relevant Authority Requirements.
Shop Drawings Detailer
1. Provide and make all necessary allowances for co-ordinating all the Architectural and Structural consultants and other specialist Principal/ Suppliers elements in preparation of the shop drawings and subsequent fabrication and installation.
2. The Shop Detailer shall take into account the Architectural and Service requirements, and all drawings produced shall be submitted to the Contractor for approval.
3. A program shall be provided by the fabricator clearly detailing durations for the following:
· Shop drawing drafting
· Consultant review period
· AFC documentation
· Fabrication lead time
· Paint applicator lead time

4. The Shop Detailer has allowed for all work associated with Requests for Information (RFI’s).  The Shop Detailer has allowed for all necessary RFI’s.  No variations will be issued for RFI’s in connection with this or for any co-ordination of other trade designs.
5. Shop drawings are to be prepared in accordance with Australian Standards (e.g. AS4100, AS1100.101, AS1100.501 and AS1101.3) showing the relevant details of each assembly, components and connections, together with information relevant to fabrication, surface treatment and erection, including:
· Dimensions of items
· Location of items in grids and rows
· Location, type and size of welds and bolts
· Cross reference between components and to the multi assembly drawings
· Angles, distance from square, slope express in 1/100.
· RL of items and level
· Cumulative numbers of items detailed on single drawings, covering the full production, on the project areas.
· Orientation, location of items, on single drawing, to the assembly drawings
· Procedures necessary for shop and site assembly
· Orientation of temporary connections
· Checking by an internal checker
· Sufficient marking plans for the erection 
· Material listings of all items on the appropriate drawing

6. Submit for approval all shop drawings and schedules to satisfy the Principal’s program requirements and allow for re-submission if amendments are required
7. Provide all shop drawings and schedules in PDF and DWG electronic format to ensure compatibility with consultants. All drawings will be loaded up as PDF & DWG onto the Principals web based documentation management system by the Principal.
8. The Detailer shall allow for coordination as necessary to clarify details, improve the build ability or a general improvement in the finished product.
9. On completion of the erection, the shop drawings shall be amended to correct any errors which have become apparent during the erection and to incorporate modifications made during the erection.  An electronic copy of the altered ‘as built’ drawings shall be submitted as part of a specific O & M manual for the scope of the works.
10. The Detailer will be required to attend meetings on site as requested by the Principal. The Subcontractor has allowed for the attendance of such meetings in the lump sum price.
PROGRAM
Contractor's Program
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that: 
1. it has carefully reviewed the Principals program or proposed program for the project; and 
2. it is able to and shall perform its obligations consistently with any such program. 
Amended Program
If the Principal's program is updated, amended or replaced the Subcontractor shall take whatever action is necessary to perform its obligations consistently with any such program (without becoming obliged to accelerate the whole of the work under the Subcontract so as to bring forward the Date for Practical Completion). The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any Claim arising out of or in connection with the effects of the Principal's program being updated, amended or replaced.  The Contractordoes not warrant that the project or any other work will be carried out consistently with the Principal's program.
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that it has a clear understanding of the allowances for delay made in the Principal's program and has included in its program such delay allowances as it considers necessary. If any such allowances prove inadequate and/or actual delays exceed allowances, then the Subcontractor shall reduce the net duration of its activities accordingly and the Subcontractor has allowed for that reduction, without being entitled to any Claim.
Completion on Time
The Subcontractor shall achieve Practical Completion by the Date for Practical Completion.
TESTING AND INSPECTIONS

1. The Subcontractor shall supply all test certificates for applications, fixings and the like and as required to satisfy the Contractor or Client. 
2. The Subcontractor should accept delivery and check condition of materials prior to installation.
3. The Subcontractor shall obtain certification from the manufacturers of each material and that the material is of correct grade, strength, size, etc.
MANUFACTURE, STORAGE AND MATERIALS HANDLING

1. All materials handling will be by the Subcontractor.
2. The Subcontractor must provide all trade specific handling equipment for movement and installation of their work. All equipment is to be certified by an Independent Engineer.
INSTALLATION

1. Provision of all equipment required to carry out the works in accordance with all statutory OHS requirements. 
2. Carry out all works in strict accordance with the relevant Australian Standards and Authority requirements.
3. The Subcontractor must allow for the provision, installation, maintenance, de-commissioning and removal from site all access equipment. All equipment must be in accordance with the approved safety plan.
4. Execution of the Works in the sequence required by the Contractor and allowance for breaks in continuity.
5. The Subcontractor shall allow for all labour and supervision costs to work on a number of dedicated work fronts as requested by the Contractor to meet programme requirements.
6. The Contractor will provide gridlines one Eastern and one Northern and a benchmark RL for each building. The Subcontractor shall be responsible for all survey and set out from these points.
7. In the event that works are damaged by another trade, the Subcontractor must attempt to resolve costs for the rectification works directly with the trade which damaged the works.  If this has been unsuccessful, the Subcontractor may request the Contractor assistance to resolve the matter.
8. The Subcontractor shall allow for all temporary bracings, shims, packers etc.
9. The Subcontractor shall allow for dyna-bolts, masonry bolts etc.
10. The Subcontractor shall allow to survey all steel to ensure that it is within tolerance and provide as-built of all installations.
11. The Subcontractor shall allow for a full time supervisor to attend all meetings.
12. The Subcontractor shall allow for all rubbish to be placed in the bins provided.
13. The Subcontractor shall allow to touch up all paint as required.

HANDOVER

1. The Subcontractor shall allow for all documentation, certification and the like as per contract documentation and specification to the satisfaction of the Principal.
2. The Subcontractor has allowed for training of the Clients building manager in the usage and maintenance of the swimming pool and water features during the three months maintenance period allowed for under this Subcontract.

MAINTENANCE AND WARRANTIES

1. Provision of comprehensive Warranties fit for purpose, for period of ten (10) years. All warranties commence on the Date of Practical Completion for the Head Contract. 
HEIGHT AND FALL MITIGATION ONSITE

1. All A-frames or trestles used as a working platform must have a handrail and kickboard (or mesh-guard). This is applicable to working platforms of ANY height, unless otherwise approved by The Contractor.  
2. All mobile scaffolds are to be erected with plan bracing, handrails, kickboards and have ladder access. No split platforms are to be used on Mobile Scaffolds.
3. All drivers and Dogman must have a fall protection system in place that eliminates the potential to fall from heights whilst off-loading materials and slinging loads.
4. All installations and systems for Materials Handling and off-loading are put in place for Fall Prevention of all workers.  This includes any new best practices that may be adopted throughout the project.
5. Harnesses are not to be used at any time without prior approval from The Contractor.

GENERAL CONDITIONS (ALL SUBCONTRACTORS):
1. BCA 2014 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
2. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority, concerning maximum noise levels, sedimentation control and control of dust. 
3. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
4. The Subcontractor shall ensure that vehicles leaving the site do so in a condition that is in accordance with the Site Environmental Management Plan and EPA requirements.
5. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Contractor. 
6. The Contractor will provide one datum and two set out points for the subcontractor to work off. No other surveying will be provided.
7. Supervision of all Works to the required standard by personnel licensed and registered as required by statutory regulations and to the satisfaction of the Principal.
8. Coordination and installation of the Subcontract Works with all preceding and following trades.
9. The Subcontractor shall ensure all of the Subcontractor’s personnel are inducted into the Subcontractor’s safety plan and have undertaken training and are competent in all tasks and work procedures.
10. All Subcontractor personnel are to attend Site “toolbox talks” / safety briefs as required at the Principal’s discretion (minimum 1 x weekly and as nominated in the Principals Project Site Safety Plan.
11. All electrical equipment required to carry out these Works must carry tags in conformance with the Workplace Health and Safety Act which includes provisions for monthly checks on all electrical equipment.  Electrical registers to be supplied and maintained.
12. All mobile plant and equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply and safety Authority requirements and be maintained in a first class condition at all times.  The Subcontractor is to keep records of maintenance and provide records to the Contractor on request. Copies of last major service records and daily/weekly operator’s checklists to be supplied to the Contractor prior to use.
13. Supply all necessary material safety data sheets, risk assessments, safe work method statements and training records prior to commencement on Site.
14. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required for their work tasks.  
15. The Subcontractor is to remove their own rubbish at the end of each day from the work area and place in bins provided by the Principal. The Subcontractor shall empty rubbish into these bins on a regular basis The Subcontractor is responsible to provide their own wheelie bins to transport rubbish to Contractor supplied bins. The Subcontractor shall dispose of all waste material in an approved manner. No material whatsoever including building fittings and fixtures shall be disposed of in non-Contractor approved bins
16. Provide labourers, brooms, shovels, wheelbarrows/wheelie bins etc for regular Site clean ups at the request of the Principal. Should the Subcontractor fail to adhere to regular Site cleanups, the Contractor will supply labour and equipment at the Subcontractor’s expense.
17. Provide an installation certificate in the form required by the Contractor certifying that the materials and workmanship installed in the Subcontract Works comply with:-
· The Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Australian Standards and good engineering practice covering the installation;
· The requirements of the Subcontract Documents and that the installation is suitable for the intended purpose;
· Completion of all defects and outstanding Works under the Subcontract.

EXCLUSIONS:

· None

SUBCONTRACT SUM BREAKDOWN

	ITEM NO.
	DESCRIPTION
	SUBCONTRACT VALUE

	
	Building 1
	

	1.0
	Prelims
	$____
	Roof structure
	$____
	Secondary steel
	$____
	Cranage
	$

	
	
	

	
	Building 2a
	

	1.0
	Prelims
	$____
	Roof structure
	$____
	Secondary steel
	$____
	Cranage
	$

	
	
	

	
	Building 2b
	

	1.0
	Prelims
	$____
	Roof structure
	$____
	Secondary steel
	$____
	Cranage
	$

	
	
	

	
	Building 3
	

	1.0
	Prelims
	$____
	Roof structure
	$____
	Secondary steel
	$____
	Cranage
	$

	
	
	

	
	
	

	
	
	




 



