THE PROJECT
SWIMMING POOL & WATER FEATURES
SCOPE OF WORKS


Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a design and construct subcontract and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant, tools and equipment necessary to design, document, manufacture, deliver, install and certify the complete SWIMMING POOL AND WATER FEATURES WORK required for a complete and functioning resort, fit for its purpose, In its entirety to drawings and Specifications and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practise, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities as generally described below including but not limited to: 

The subcontractor is deemed to, but not limited to, have:
1. Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Principal to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.
2. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
3.  Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
4. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.
DESCRIPTION OF WORK AREA:
Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract, the Subcontractor shall provide all designs,
labour, materials, plant and equipment necessary to design, carry out, commission and certify all of the Swimming Pool trade works to the project, Central Facilities.

The pool is centrally located within Central Facilities. The plant room is located within building 3.

Water Feature 1 (WF1) is located within the reception area along grid 19 to existing pond.

Water Feature 2 (WF2) is located along grid 26 adjacent building 3 to swimming pool.

Water Feature 3 (WF3) is located centrally within building 3.

All swimming pool and water feature works as indicated on the Swimming Pool Scope Mark Up Drawing. This marked up scope drawing is indicative and the full scope of works is not limited to this document. The document is to assist the Subcontractor in their evaluation of the Subcontract package including but not limited to:

· Design
· Excavation works
· Pool structure
· Pool finishes
· Hydraulic works
· Electrical works
· Certification

SPECIFIC INCLUSIONS
INSURANCE
Provide Professional Indemnity Insurance for the value of $____
Provide Work Cover as per one of the below options:
1. NSW Work Cover Policy.
2. Written confirmation from the workers compensation insurer that this specific project is covered for the duration of the works.
DESIGN
3. The Subcontractor shall provide design documents including but not limited to, Shop Drawings, Penetration Details and Setout Clearances to the Principal for approval prior to the installation of the works.
4. The Subcontractor shall provide technical support, liaison and coordinate with the design team as required.
5. The Subcontract is to provide a design certificate signed by a registered practicing engineer, with the design, prior to the installation of the works.
6. The Subcontractor shall provide signed certification from a registered practicing engineer for the “as Built” works prior to Practical Completion.
7. Allow adequate time to provide samples before works are required on site.
8. The Subcontractor shall verify and confirm all “as built” dimensions and measurements and set out on site for all floor and support RL’s, Allow for normal structural and other construction tolerances.
9. The Subcontractor is to comply with all relevant Australian Standards, Building Codes and relevant Authority Requirements.
Design Obligation
The Subcontractor shall carry out and complete the design of the part of the Works referred to in the scope of works.  The Subcontractor represents and warrants, in addition to any other representation or warranty given or obligations assumed, that the design shall:
1. be fully and professionally completed without error, omission or Defect;
2. comply with the provisions of the Subcontract;
3. be fit for construction;
4. be fit for all purposes for which such a part of the Works might reasonably be used; and
5. be fit for any purpose made known to the Subcontractor prior to the date of this Subcontract.
The Subcontractor acknowledges that the Principal has entered into this Subcontract in reliance on the representations and warranties given in this clause.
Design Responsibility
If the scope of works specifies that the Subcontractor must carry out and complete the design of a part of the Works, then:
1. the Subcontractor represents and warrants that it relies on any information or document provided by the Principal, the Principal's Representative or the Principal or any agent or consultant of either entirely at its own risk and is deemed to have itself prepared any such information or documents.  The Principal shall have no liability whatsoever in connection with any such information or documents and the Subcontractor acknowledges that the Principal has entered into this Subcontract in reliance on this representation and warranty; and
2. the Principal shall not be obliged to review or comment upon any design or to check any design for errors, omissions or compliance with the Subcontract.  The Principal or its agent's receipt of, or review of or comment upon any design or documents including documents provided by the Subcontractor shall not relieve the Subcontractor from responsibility for the Subcontractor's errors, omissions or Defects or any departure from the requirements of the Subcontract.
Submission of Design in Time to Allow Re-Work
The Subcontractor shall submit any design developed or carried out by the Subcontractor:
1. in accordance with any program for the Works that has been approved by the Principal; and
2. in any event, within sufficient time to allow reasonable times for:
a) the Principal to comment upon that design and submit it to the Client; and
b) re-design work or amended design work if required by the Principal or the Client,
so that any re-design work or amended design work (taking into account the requirements of the Principal or the Client) can be carried out by the Subcontractor without causing any delay in the progress of the work under the Subcontract or the Head Contract Works.
The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any Claim if required to carry out any re-design work or amended design work.
Design Documents
The Subcontractor shall provide such design documents and samples as the Principal's Representative may require and for the Principal to comply with its design obligations under the Head Contract in respect of the work under the Subcontract.  Design documents may include, without limitation, drawings, specifications, workshop drawings, as-built drawings, operating and maintenance manuals, calculations, test certificates, surveys, reports and schedules.
Unless the Subcontract expressly requires a greater number than required by this clause, or the Principal's Representative agrees in writing to accept a lesser number, the Subcontractor shall provide the Principal with one original and five copies of all design documents.  At the request of the Principal's Representative, the Subcontractor shall provide, in addition to or in substitution for (as determined by the Principal' Representative in its discretion) the design documents otherwise to be provided under the Subcontract, design documents in an electronic format approved by the Principal's Representative.
Design Presentation
The Subcontractor shall make design presentations to the Principal, the Client and their representatives at the times or stages, required by, any program for the Works approved by the Principal's Representative and at other times required by the Client's Representative.  The Subcontractor shall ensure that its designer and other relevant personnel attend design presentations. Design presentations shall include, without limitation, appropriate representation from relevant consultants, and provision of design documents, samples and other relevant information required by the Principal's Representative or the Client to properly consider the design.
Design Intent
For the purposes of this clause, 'Design Intent' means the design principles, shapes, forms, outlines, materials, finishes, colours, quality and types of materials and finishes, systems, concepts, and standards and relationships between all and any of these as inferred, shown, evidenced or reasonably contemplated by the Subcontract.
Unless otherwise expressly permitted by the Subcontract, the Subcontractor shall not depart from the Design Intent.  If the Subcontractor proposes to depart from the Design Intent and such departure is not expressly permitted by the Subcontract, the Subcontractor shall, as soon as it becomes aware of the need for or desirability of such departure, but in any event no later than when it submits its design to the Principal's Representative pursuant to the subcontract terms and conditions, clearly specify the proposed departure and the reasons therefore.  The Subcontractor shall not implement any work the subject of a proposed departure until the Principal's Representative has commented on the design of that work and has not rejected it.  The Principal's Representative's comment may be subject to the Client's acceptance of the proposed departure and any non-rejection by the Principal may be subject to conditions.  Until the Principal has commented on the proposed departure, the Subcontractor shall continue to perform the work under the Subcontract.  The Principal's Representative will be under no obligation to accept or approve any departure from the Design Intent.
Design Certification
The Subcontractor shall employ a designer (which may be a consultant) for the work under the Subcontract who is appropriately and professionally qualified.  The Subcontractor shall provide to the Principal's Representative prior to any design work commencing and at such other time as the Principal's Representative may require, details of the designer's qualifications.
Moral Rights
The Subcontractor must not infringe or cause to be infringed the Moral Rights of any Author.
It is the full responsibility  of the Subcontractor to procure from each Author an executed Moral Rights consent requiring that the Author will not enforce any Moral Rights that he or she may have, presently or in the future, in the Copyright Works.
Without limiting this clause, the Subcontractor represents and warrants that the Principal, the Client and each of their successors, assigns and licensees may:
1. exercise any rights in relation to the Copyright Works, without identifying any person as the individual responsible for creating any particular material comprising the Copyright Works;
2. have the Copyright Works bear the name of the Principal or any other person associated with the project; and
3. modify, alter, adapt, distort or otherwise change any of the Copyright Works as they deem fit in their discretion, including;
a) adaptation or translation into other dimensions, format or media of those Copyright Works; and
b) changing, relocating, demolishing or destroying any two or three dimensional reproduction of those Copyright Works without notice to, or consultation with, the Author.
The Subcontractor shall ensure that the Consent required by this clause is genuinely given and not obtained by duress or by the making of any false or misleading statement.
Shop Drawings Detailer
1. Provide and make all necessary allowances for co-ordinating all the Architectural and Structural consultants and other specialist Principal/ Suppliers elements in preparation of the shop drawings and subsequent fabrication and installation.
2. The Shop Detailer shall take into account the Architectural and Service requirements, and all drawings produced shall be submitted to the Principal for approval.
3. A program shall be provided by the fabricator clearly detailing durations for the following:
· Shop drawing drafting
· Consultant review period
· AFC documentation
· Fabrication lead time
· Paint applicator lead time

4. The Shop Detailer has allowed for all work associated with Requests for Information (RFI’s).  The Shop Detailer has allowed for all necessary RFI’s.  No variations will be issued for RFI’s in connection with this or for any co-ordination of other trade designs.
5. Shop drawings are to be prepared in accordance with Australian Standards (e.g. AS4100, AS1100.101, AS1100.501 and AS1101.3) showing the relevant details of each assembly, components and connections, together with information relevant to fabrication, surface treatment and erection, including:
· Dimensions of items
· Location of items in grids and rows
· Location, type and size of welds and bolts
· Cross reference between components and to the multi assembly drawings
· Angles, distance from square, slope express in 1/100.
· RL of items and level
· Cumulative numbers of items detailed on single drawings, covering the full production, on the project areas.
· Orientation, location of items, on single drawing, to the assembly drawings
· Procedures necessary for shop and site assembly
· Orientation of temporary connections
· Checking by an internal checker
· Sufficient marking plans for the erection 
· Material listings of all items on the appropriate drawing

6. Submit for approval all shop drawings and schedules to satisfy the Principal’s program requirements and allow for re-submission if amendments are required
7. Provide all shop drawings and schedules in PDF and DWG electronic format to ensure compatibility with consultants. All drawings will be loaded up as PDF & DWG onto the Principals web based documentation management system by the Principal.
8. The Detailer shall allow for coordination as necessary to clarify details, improve the build ability or a general improvement in the finished product.
9. On completion of the erection, the shop drawings shall be amended to correct any errors which have become apparent during the erection and to incorporate modifications made during the erection.  An electronic copy of the altered ‘as built’ drawings shall be submitted as part of a specific O & M manual for the scope of the works.
10. The Detailer will be required to attend meetings on site as requested by the Principal. The Subcontractor has allowed for the attendance of such meetings in the lump sum price.

PROGRAM
Principal's Program
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that: 
1. it has carefully reviewed the Principals program or proposed program for the project; and 
2. it is able to and shall perform its obligations consistently with any such program. 
Amended Program
If the Principal's program is updated, amended or replaced the Subcontractor shall take whatever action is necessary to perform its obligations consistently with any such program (without becoming obliged to accelerate the whole of the work under the Subcontract so as to bring forward the Date for Practical Completion). The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any Claim arising out of or in connection with the effects of the Principal's program being updated, amended or replaced.  The Principal does not warrant that the project or any other work will be carried out consistently with the Principal's program.
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that it has a clear understanding of the allowances for delay made in the Principal's program and has included in its program such delay allowances as it considers necessary. If any such allowances prove inadequate and/or actual delays exceed allowances, then the Subcontractor shall reduce the net duration of its activities accordingly and the Subcontractor has allowed for that reduction, without being entitled to any Claim.
Completion on Time
The Subcontractor shall achieve Practical Completion by the Date for Practical Completion.
TESTING AND INSPECTIONS

1. The Subcontractor must ensure all necessary Site measurement is carried out prior to fabrication.
2. The Subcontractor will be responsible for the quantity of materials required for the project.
3. The Subcontractor shall supply all test certificates for applications, fixings and the like and as required to satisfy the Principal or Client. 
4. The Subcontractor should accept delivery and check condition of materials prior to installation.
5. The Subcontractor shall obtain certification from the manufacturers of each material and that the material is of correct grade, strength, size, etc.
PROCUREMENT

1. The Subcontractor must submit samples for approval prior to order being placed.
2. The Subcontractor is to provide detailed lead time durations for the supply of material.

INSTALLATION

1. The Subcontractor is to supply and install the following finishes to the swimming pool including but not limited to: 
a) Pebble aggregate surface 2-3mm to with ebony coloured pebble finish or equivalent based on client selections. 
b) Tiling of wet deck (install only as per exclusions)
c) Wet deck stone grating (see sample provided) 
d) Coping to negative pool edges and waterline tile (install only as per exclusions)

2. The Subcontractor is to provide a filtration system for the swimming pool including but not limited to:
a) Pre-pump strainer 
b) Recirculation pumps. Centrifugal variable speed pump with VSD control panel. All pumps fitted with rubber mounts 
c) Stainless steel screened foot valve poppet type to suit pumps. 
d) Filtration unit (regenerative media type) semi-automatic. 
e) Stainless steel foot valve 
f) Concrete balance Tank 45000L 

3. The Subcontractor is to provide the following chemical equipment for the swimming pool including but not limited to:
a) Water Chemistry controller 
b) Chemical dosing unit including pH controller and dosing equipment 

4. The Subcontractor is to supply and install energy efficient in pool lighting (LED’s) including but not limited to:
a) Switchboard to operate the equipment.
b) Electrical connection of pumps, filters, controllers and all pool electrical equipment inside the plant room only.
c) Supply and installation of pool underwater lighting, LED flush mount (10 Lights). Lights including transformer. 

5. The Subcontractor is to supply and install the following finishes to the water features including but not limited to: 
a) Pebble aggregate surface 2-3mm to water features with ebony coloured pebble finish has been included or an equivalent chosen by the client. 
b) Tiling of water feature edges (install only as per exclusions)
c) Rock Boulders 

6. The Subcontractor is to provide filtration systems for the water features including but not limited to:
a) Variable speed pumps. All pumps fitted with rubber mounts 
b) Cartridge filters 
c) Salt chlorinator with pH controller 

7. The Subcontractor is to supply and install energy efficient in pool lighting (LED’s) including but not limited to:
d) Switchboard to operate the equipment.
e) Electrical connection of pumps, filters, controllers and all water feature pool electrical equipment inside the plant room only.


8. The Subcontractor is to allow to connect to the spear pump for non-potable water supply top-up and to the potable town water supply for back-up, connection points provided by the Hydraulics Subcontractor. Allow to coordinate with the Hydraulics Subcontractor.
9. The Subcontractor is to coordinate with the Electrical Services Subcontractor to connect the Subcontract works electrical supply.
10. Allow caulking to joints between the coping tile and surrounding floor finish using an approved caulking product.
11. The Subcontractor is to supply and install a robotic commercial pool cleaner system.
12. The Subcontractor is to install 2 No. infinity edges as per the design development drawings.
13. The Subcontractor is to supply and install suitable external statutory pool safety and first aid signage. Location to be confirmed by the Principal.
14. Supply and install appropriate pool depth safety signage approved by the Principal.
15. The Subcontractor is to provide all plant and equipment required to complete the Subcontract works including concrete booms/pumps. A designated area for placement of plant and equipment is to be coordinated and approved by the Principal. 
16. The Subcontractor must provide documented proof that each installer has been inducted into the work method statements and understands them prior to commencement on site.
17. Provision of all equipment required to carry out the works in accordance with all statutory OHS requirements.
18. Carry out all works in strict accordance with the relevant Australian Standards and Authority requirements.
19. The Subcontractor must allow for the provision, installation, maintenance, de-commissioning and removal from site all access equipment. All equipment must be in accordance with the approved safety plan.
20. The Contractor will provide gridlines two Eastern and two Northern and a benchmark RL. The Subcontractor shall be responsible for all survey and set out from these points.  
21. Execution of the Works in the sequence required by the Principal and allowance for breaks in continuity.
22. The Subcontractor shall allow for all labour and supervision costs to work on a number of dedicated work fronts as requested by the Principal to meet programme requirements.
23. The Subcontractor is to provide all task specific lighting.
24. The Subcontractor is to remove al rubbish to bins supplied by the Principal, on a daily basis.
25. All access requirements, including low and high level scaffolding, platforms etc as necessary to carry out the works shall be supplied and maintained by the Subcontractor at all times.
26. All Scaffolding supplied by the Subcontractor shall meet the Principals safety standards for the heights applicable.
27. The Subcontractor is to co-ordinate their works with all other trades on Site as directed by the Principal. 
28. All work areas to be cleaned daily to the Principal’s complete satisfaction. All trade waste and debris to be deposited thoughtfully (boxes broken down etc) into bins provided.
29. Allow for all out of hours work as needed to meet the Principal’s requests.
30. In the event that works are damaged by another trade, the Subcontractor must attempt to resolve costs for the rectification works directly with the trade which damaged the works. If this has been unsuccessful, the Subcontractor may request the Principal’s assistance to resolve the matter.
31. Co-ordinate and work in with all other trades.
32. Allow to make good all adjoining surfaces as requested by the Principal.
33. The Subcontractor must notify the Principal as soon as one of the Subcontractor’s workers sustains a compensable or lost-time injury on site.
34. The Subcontractor must provide the Principal with an incident report for each compensable or lost time injury sustained by any of the Subcontractor’s workers on site.
35. The Subcontractor must make all reasonable attempts to implement early intervention strategies and suitable duties programs when any of the Subcontractor’s workers sustains a compensable or lost-time injury. The Subcontractor will provide daily updates to the Contractor on the status of the injured worker until the worker returns to work on normal duties.


MANUFACTURE, STORAGE AND MATERIALS HANDLING

1. All materials handling will be by the Subcontractor.
2. The Subcontractor must provide all trade specific handling equipment for movement and installation of their work. All equipment is to be certified by an Independent Engineer.
HANDOVER

1. The Subcontractor shall allow for all documentation, certification and the like as per contract documentation and specification to the satisfaction of the Principal.
2. The Subcontractor has allowed for training of the Clients building manager in the usage and maintenance of the swimming pool and water features during the three months maintenance period allowed for under this Subcontract.

MAINTENANCE AND WARRANTIES

1. Provision of comprehensive Warranties fit for purpose, for periods outlined in the below schedule All warranties commence on the Date of Practical Completion. 
2. All warranties are to be back to back from Subcontractor and manufacturer.

	COMPANY
	PRODUCT
	WARRANTY PERIOD

	The supplier
	Regenerative media filter
	10 years

	The subcontractor
	Pool and water feature structures
	10 years

	The supplier
	Water chemistry controller
	1 year

	The supplier
	Chemical dosing unit
	1 year

	The supplier
	Robotic pool cleaner
	2 years

	The supplier
	Variable speed pumps
	3 year conditional

	The supplier
	Cartridge filters
	5 years tank, lid, locking ring and 12 months on gauge and elements

	The supplier
	Pool light
	1 year



3. Make allowance for full maintenance of pool from date of commissioning and handover to Practical Completion under the Head Contract.
4. The Subcontractor shall supply the initial cleaning, equipment, products and maintenance kit.
5. Provide a schedule of proposed full ongoing maintenance items and when they will be completed.
6. Allow for adequate quantities of spare parts (located in Australia on hand) to allow for full maintenance of the pool plant during the 12 month Defects Liability Period. Adequate spare parts shall be kept to ensure minimal / acceptable down times during maintenance / repair.
7. The Subcontractor has allowed for the first three months of servicing for both the swimming pool and water features including equipment relative to each item. Period commences from Practical Completion of head contract.

TRADE SPECIFIC CONDITIONS
The extent of the Subcontract Works shall also include for, be subject to but not be limited to the following:

1. This is a design and construct Subcontract with the Subcontractor having full responsibility for all aspects of design and construction to enable the installation of all components and associated Works to function correctly. The Subcontractor shall ensure that all relevant codes, manufacturers’ recommendations and specifications, local Authority, regulations and current good design and installation practices are complied with.
2. The Subcontractor shall comply with the general intent of the Subcontract Documents and in strict accordance with the relevant Australian Standards, Authority requirements, and generally at law carry out the supply and installation of the swimming pool.
3. The following specifies the swimming pool scope of works  but is not intended to describe all aspects of the pool in detail or pool requirements. Any performance requirements or equipment details which are not specifically described in this document but is required for the complete design, installation, operation and Authority Certification of the pool shall be provided and shall be included as part of the Subcontract Works.
4. Design, document, fabricate, supply, deliver, unload, handle, hoist, install and certify the swimming pool Works in accordance with the Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Building Services Authority requirements, Building Code of Australia, Australian Standards and good building practice.
5. The Subcontractor shall include the construction, commissioning of all components and will include:
· Pool construction to swimming stage.

6. Accept bulkfill works completed by the Principal ready for construction of the pool..
7. Supply and installation of movement / isolation joints and mounts to all pipework, fixtures, plant, equipment and fitments.
8. Supply, installation and commissioning of all cast in and underground run pipework from the pool and pool plant room.
9. Clean, grind and prepare the concrete pool prior to membrane installation.
10. Design, supply and installation of pool shell waterproofing to conform with Australian Standards.
11. Skim coat and screed concrete pool surface prior to tiling.
12. Supply and installation of grout upon colour approval. Grout shall be of a type to resist mould and algae growth.
13. Supply and installation of waterproof joint or equivalent acceptable waterproof detail between coping tile and pool tiling.
14. Supply and installation of waterproof joint or equivalent acceptable waterproof detail between concrete pool and pool concourse.
15. Supply and installation of cast in steps with stainless steel grab rails to the approved location.
16. Allow for acoustic treatment of all pool plant and equipment.
17. Refer to the specification for the interior finish to the swimming pool and steps.
18. Refer to the specifications for the outside coping edge of the pool finish.
19. Refer to the specification for the internal waterline of pool finish.
20. The Subcontractor shall allow for labour, plant, equipment and materials.
21. Supply and installation of all plumbing and drainage work from point of connection indicated on the Subcontract Documents.
22. Supply and installation of a distribution board to control timing and power to equipment including coordination with the Principal’s electrical subcontractor. The distribution board shall be located in the pool plant room. The Subcontractor shall allow for all electrical works from the load side of the pool distribution board.
23. Supply and installation of circuit breakers in the pool services distribution board for connection of all associated pool equipment.
24. Provide equipment loads information to the Principal’s electrical subcontractor to size cables, mains supply, sub-mains, boards and protection devices.
25. Supply and installation of alarm to concierge or managers office to notify the concierge or manager 
26. The Subcontractor shall allow for all soil preparation and necessary testing. 
27. The Subcontractor shall allow for excavation including disposal of soil (to green keepers shed), backfilling and compaction.
28. The Subcontractor shall allow for imported fill as and if required.
29. The Subcontractor shall allow for making good.
30. The Subcontractor shall allow for the installation of pool copings and nosings, where required including all adhesives, grouts, sealants etc.
31. The Subcontractor shall allow for lights.
32. The Subcontractor shall allow for formwork, concrete and reinforcement.
33. The Subcontractor shall maintain all fencing, temporary barricading and signage in accordance with local council Authority requirements, occupational health and safety legislation and relevant Codes, for the whole duration of the Subcontractors Works.
34. Supply and installation of all statutory signage required under the Swimming Pools Act 1992, including a framed resuscitation chart installed to an agreed location nearby the pool area. Samples or paper duplicates of all signage required revealing size, font, colour and the like shall be supplied to the Principal for approval prior to manufacture.
35. Certification and Registration: On completion of the installation and testing of the completed pool system, provide certification of the pool in compliance with the relevant standards as outlined in the current occupational health and safety legislation, together with providing the necessary documentation to allow for local government Authority certification, Substantial Completion and Practical Completion under the Head Contract.


GENERAL CONDITIONS (ALL SUBCONTRACTORS):
1. BCA 2014 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
2. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority, concerning maximum noise levels, sedimentation control and control of dust. 
3. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
4. The Subcontractor shall ensure that vehicles leaving the site do so in a condition that is in accordance with the Site Environmental Management Plan and EPA requirements.
5. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Principal. 
6. The Principal will provide one datum and two set out points for the subcontractor to work off. No other surveying will be provided.
7. Supervision of all Works to the required standard by personnel licensed and registered as required by statutory regulations and to the satisfaction of the Principal.
8. Coordination and installation of the Subcontract Works with all preceding and following trades.
9. The Subcontractor shall ensure all of the Subcontractor’s personnel are inducted into the Subcontractor’s safety plan and have undertaken training and are competent in all tasks and work procedures.
10. All Subcontractor personnel are to attend Site “toolbox talks” / safety briefs as required at the Principal’s discretion (minimum 1 x weekly and as nominated in the Principals Project Site Safety Plan.
11. All electrical equipment required to carry out these Works must carry tags in conformance with the Workplace Health and Safety Act which includes provisions for monthly checks on all electrical equipment.  Electrical registers to be supplied and maintained.
12. All mobile plant and equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply and safety Authority requirements and be maintained in a first class condition at all times.  The Subcontractor is to keep records of maintenance and provide records to the Principal on request. Copies of last major service records and daily/weekly operator’s checklists to be supplied to the Principal prior to use.
13. Supply all necessary material safety data sheets, risk assessments, safe work method statements and training records prior to commencement on Site.
14. It is mandatory Site requirement that, in addition to safety boots, hi-visibility clothing and hard hats, all employees are to wear long sleeve clothing whilst on Site.  
15. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required for their work tasks.  
16. The Subcontractor is to remove their own rubbish at the end of each day from the work area and place in bins provided by the Principal. The Subcontractor shall empty rubbish into these bins on a regular basis The Subcontractor is responsible to provide their own wheelie bins to transport rubbish to Principal supplied bins. The Subcontractor shall dispose of all waste material in an approved manner. No material whatsoever including building fittings and fixtures shall be disposed of in non-Principal approved bins
17. Provide labourers, brooms, shovels, wheelbarrows/wheelie bins etc for regular Site clean ups at the request of the Principal. Should the Subcontractor fail to adhere to regular Site cleanups, the Principal will supply labour and equipment at the Subcontractor’s expense.
18. Provide an installation certificate in the form required by the Principal certifying that the materials and workmanship installed in the Subcontract Works comply with:-
· The Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Australian Standards and good engineering practice covering the installation;
· The requirements of the Subcontract Documents and that the installation is suitable for the intended purpose;
· Completion of all defects and outstanding Works under the Subcontract.

EXCLUSIONS:

1. Supply of tiles and coping.
2. Pool fencing.
3. Temporary fence around pool.
4. Dewatering
5. Outdoor furniture around pool including bins, seats etc.
6. Bored Piers 
7. Concrete to be supplied @ $____m3 by the concrete supplier, purchased through the subcontractor (the subcontractor’s allowance was $____m3) 
8. Reo to be supplied at $____ per tonne for standard stock bar only by TBA, purchased through by the subcontractor (the subcontractor’s Allowance was $____ per tonne)
9. Power to plant room 
10. Water supply for filling pool
11. Sewer and stormwater 
12. Power supply for construction activities   































SUBCONTRACT SUM BREAKDOWN

	ITEM NO.
	DESCRIPTION
	SUBCONTRACT VALUE

	
	Swimming Pool
	

	1.0
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$

	
	
	

	
	Water Feature 1
	

	1.0
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$

	
	
	

	
	Water Feature 2
	

	1.0
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$____
	
	$

	
	
	

	
	
	

	
	
	

	
	
	

	
	
	

	
	
	

	
	
	

	
	
	

	
	
	




 



