
THE PROJECT 

TILING SCOPE OF WORKS

Date: ____

PLEASE NOTE: TILING SHOULD BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ENTIRE PROJECT DOCUMENTATION WITH THIS SCOPE OF WORK USED AS A GUIDE ONLY AND TO BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH ARCHITECTURAL, STRUCTURAL AND SERVICES CONSULANTS DRAWINGS, SPECIFICATIONS, BCA AND AUSTRALIAN STANDARDS. 

The scope of works shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

TILING:

1. Provide all necessary labour, materials, plant and equipment necessary to complete the entire Tiling Works in accordance with the drawings, specifications, construction programme and relevant Australian Standards, statutory requirements and professional standards including everything necessary for the proper and timely completion in a properly coordinated and safe manner.
2. The works will include supplying & laying tiles to the following areas but not be limited to:

UNITS

· T1 Floor Tiles to Unit Entrances, Bathrooms, Ensuites, Kitchens, Laundries.
· T1 Skirting Tile to laundrys. 
· T2 Wall Tiles to Bathrooms & Ensuites.

· T3 Feature Wall Tiles to Bathrooms & Ensuites.
· T4 Laundry Splashbacks.
COMMON AREAS
· T1 Floor Tiles to typical floors including Main Entry Foyer & Floors to Lifts No. 1 & 2.
· T1 Skirting Tile to Staff Room Kitchenette. 

· T2 Floor Tiles to wet area floors including Kitchen, Female/Male/Accessible 1 & 2 Wet Areas, Powder Room, Nurses Ensuite, Nurses Accommodation, Cinema Kiosk & Mini Bar.
· T3 Wall Tiles to wet areas General Walls and Cleaners Room Splashback.
· T4 Feature Wall Tile to Bar Back.
· T5 Feature Tile to Bar Front.
· T6 Feature Wall Tile to Male, Female & Accessible Bathrooms.  
· T7 Splashback Tile to the Kitchen, Staff Room, Nurses Ensuite, Powder Room & Doctors Room.
· Proprietary Cast in Place Stair Tread Nosings in aluminum finish with black insert strips.
· Giant Chess Board – honed & polished black & white granite tiles on sand cement bed. 
· Stone coping tile to lawn box step edges.

EXTERNAL/BASEMENT AREAS

· Floor Tile #1 Floor Tiles to ground floor common areas, Outdoor seating Area & BBQ Area (300x600 – product ____ R12/W Pendulum) / External Entrances / Accessible Ramp, Basement Lift Foyer Areas, & Roof Top (600x600 – product ____ R12/W Pendulum).

· Floor Tile # 2 to Level 1-5 Balconies.
3. Subcontractor to supply & install acoustic matt under tiled/hard surfaces where required on the drawings & specifications.
4. Subcontractor to provide samples of minimum 4 No. each specified tiles as per Ceramic Tiling Specification. 
5. Subcontractor to provide a 1m2 sample panel of each type of floor and wall tiling for approval. This will then become the standard of the balance of work refer to Ceramic Tiling Specification.

6. The Main Contractor is to confirm tile set out to the Subcontractor prior to laying any tiles. Tile layout is subject to Architects approval only.  
7. Cull and sort tiles for colour matching and quality prior to fixing in place.
8. Waste plugs are to be temporarily installed in floor wastes to ensure bedding and grout are not emptied into floor wastes.

9. Complete all floor and wall tiling to the areas as noted in accordance with the specification and finishes schedule, including all temporary rules, temporary grounds, temporary screed and the like, all normal bedding and pointing materials, cleaning down and making good around pipes, sanitary pipes built in joinery and the like, and cutting and waste.

10. Provide all materials necessary to complete the tiling works in a professional manner including but no limited to grout, bedding material, glue compatible with waterproofing compound, caulking, jointing material etc.

11. Supply and fixing of all necessary aluminium angles and edge strips at door thresholds bounding areas of tiling and dis-similar floor coverings including carpeted areas.

12. Supply and installation of all bedding to bathroom set downs to ensure correct falls to wet areas including water testing completed tiling. Failure to provide correct falls will result in tiles being taken up and re-laid at the Subcontractors expense. 
13. Subcontractor to provide all slip test reports required as specified. 

14. Coordinate tiling works with the installation to surface mounted items and provide for all fixings for all surface mounted items, built in items and plates, wastes etc.

15. Install and form all horizontal and vertical expansion joints and the like necessary to the works including backer rod and silicon sealants for floor and / wall corner expansion joints as necessary for the long term life and satisfactory maintenance of the works. Ensure total compatibility of silicon sealants with tile adhesive and grout to avoid chemical reaction and discolouring.

16. Provide silicon jointing to all horizontal and vertical internal corners of wall tiling and at junctions between wall tiles and floor finishes, door frames, bench tops, joinery units, ceiling finishes, thresholds, fixtures and fittings. This must be carried out to the satisfaction of the Main Contractor and Architect on completion. Works must be of a high quality finish.

17. Witnessing and water testing of membranes and there after taking responsibility for the integrity of the membrane during tiling works.  Should the membrane leak as a result of damage it shall be assumed such damage was a result of tiling operations and all costs of making good and consequential damage shall be borne by the Subcontractor.

18. All tiling work shall be carried out in accordance with the Australian Standards, Local Authority requirements and the BCA.  Should any of these requirements be in conflict with the specification the Main Contractor will be notified immediately.

19. Carry out any necessary removal of water or drying out of substrates.

20. Inspect all walls for plumb and straightness prior to fixing tiles. Commencement of fixing shall be deemed as acceptance of the substrata.

21. Checking inspection and planning of joint placement particularly dissimilar background materials i.e. blockwork and concrete substructure.

22. Subcontractor to protect finished works and is responsible for completed works until completion. Prevent walking on or contact with floor & wall tiles for a minium of 7 No. days. 

23. Protect all adjacent surfaces during tiling operations.  All waste material particularly grout material shall be removed to designated bins. No waste is to be washed down drains. Any tiling material found in wastes and drains will be removed at the Subcontractors expense.

24. Trade cleaning including removal of finger marks, grease, excessive adhesives, etc to the complete satisfaction of the Main Contractor.

25. Execution of the works in the sequence required by the Main Contractor and allowance for minor breaks in continuity.  

26. Allow to coordinate with all other trades as may be required.

27. Subcontractor is to provide supervision on site at all times to control labour.    

28. Provision of task lighting as required.

29. Allow to coordinate deliveries with site staff well in advance.  

30. The Subcontractor shall at the time of receipt of any items supplied by the Main Contractor advise the Main Contractor of any incorrect deliveries or items in order to minimise delays to the Construction Programme.

31. All labour slings, crates, trolleys and lifting cages etc, associated with or required for the movement of materials is to be supplied by the Subcontractor.  The crane is available to the Subcontractor at a time coordinated well in advance with the Main Contractor.  Note: trucks will not be unloaded unless confirmed lifting time is made with the Site Manager.
32. Store materials as directed by the Main Contractor and take responsibility for any losses. 

33. All works to be in accordance with Australian Standards, the BCA and any relevant Acts and Regulations.
34. Submit operation manuals and warranties prior to practical completion. 

35. All warranties and guarantees as per the Architect’s Document 00630 Warranties Specification.
36. Cash retention applies.
37. The Subcontractor is to allow maintenance for a period of 12 months commencing practical completion of the project for defects liability period.

38. Payment terms are 35days from end of month.
39. The following Drawings, Specifications, Reports, Programme*, Rates will form part of the contract and have been nominated by the Main Contractor as particularly relevant to your trade or area of responsibility and may require further coordination between the Subcontractor, Main Contractor, relevant Consultant and possibly other Subcontractors:

	Drawings
	As per drawing register attached dated ____

	Specifications
	As per specification register attached dated ____ including:
the Architect’s Architectural Specification

Section 003 Notes

Section 00630 Warranties 
Section 00800 Supplementary Conditions of Contract
Section 03310 Concrete
Section 06400 Joinery 

Section 08200 Doors & Door Frames

Section 09200 Hard Plaster

Section 09250 Plasterboard

Section 09300 Ceramic Tiles

Section 09680 Carpet
Section 12480 Floor Mats & Frames   
Apartment Interior Finishes, Fixtures & Equipment Schedule Rev ____ dated ____

Common Area Finishes, Fittings & Fixtures Schedule Rev ____ dated ____

Exterior Finishes Schedule Rev ____ dated ____

	Reports
	The builder’s Construction Environmental Management Plan 

	Construction

Programme*
	Construction Programme Rev ____ dated ____. Note: Construction Programme will be updated at each weekly Subcontractors Meeting

	Timing / Critical Dates
	See above mentioned construction programme*

	Labour Rates
	Supervisor 
$    TBA     / hour

Labour 
$  TBA / hour


* Please note that this programme is an estimate of the dates that various trades are expected to be on site and therefore all subcontractors should liaise closely with the Site Manager in order to ascertain the precise dates that they will be required to be on site.
GENERAL:

1. Should any discrepancies occur between the civil, architectural, structural and services documentation, the Subcontractor shall allow for the most onerous of these discrepancies and seek advice from the Project Manager.

2. All or any works, labour plant and equipment requirements not specifically mentioned herein or shown in the tender or construction documents but are necessary for the proper use and complete performance of the works as its intended use/operation, shall be deemed to be included in the Subcontractors Tender.  

3. It is the Subcontractors responsibility to ensure at all times they are working from the latest issues of consultants and services drawings and other subcontractors shop drawings and schedule of finishes.

4. Note that all variation claims shall only be considered for approval when they are accompanied by an agreed day work sheet signed by the builder’s Site Manager. In addition, note that a signed day work sheet does not necessarily constitute a variation.

5. All horizontal movement of materials is the Subcontractors responsibility.
6. Include for supply of all equipment necessary to complete the works in a tradesman like manner.  

7. Rubbish to be collected daily in the Subcontractors own bins and then dumped into a common bin provided on site by the builder. The builder encourages the use of materials ordered to length.  

8. Supervision on site at all times to control plant and labour. Every owner of plant must ensure plant is registered with work cover when required and owners are appropriately qualified. Plant must be fitted with working hazard lights/reversing lights and beepers. 

9. All site access points and storage areas to be subject to the agreement of the Main Contractor.

10. The Subcontractor shall supply their own safety equipments such as harnesses, guard rails, etc. to provide a safe working environment for their workers and others at all times.

11. Subcontractor to wear safety helmet and steel capped boots at all times and safety vests when moving plant is present or works is undertaken near traffic. PPE such as eye protection, hearing protection, safety gloves, masks to be worn when welding, drilling and all other tasks with similar risks.

12. The consumption of or being under the influence of alcohol and illegal drugs on the site is prohibited. 

13. Lunch shed & ablution block will be supplied by the Main Contractor – to be located as deemed best by the Main Contractor.

14. Power will be supplied by the Main Contractor.  

15. Subcontractor to submit a site specific Company Safety Plan within 48 hours of Letter of Acceptance being issued by the builder for approval by the Main Contractor.

16. Site safety in general will be a particular focus of the Main Contractor. The builder intends to operate a safe site and shall actively monitor compliance with your Safe Work Method Statement and any relevant codes, statutes and laws.

17. Attendance at any and all site meetings that may be required for the duration of the project is mandatory by a Subcontractor representative (Supervisor or Site Foreman).

18. Provide all warranties and operation & maintenance manuals required. Final payment will not be made until all required documentation has been provided.

19. Defects Liability period: 12 months.

20. Lump Sum Contract.

21. Subcontract Agreement AS 4901.

22. Liquidated Damages are $____ per day unlimited.

23. Sequencing of works to be determined on site – sequence to have no impact on costs.

24. The site is a six (6) day workplace. 

25. It is the subcontractor’s responsibility to supply all labour as necessary to meet the construction programme.

EXCLUSIONS:

1. Pool Tiling Including pool coping tile 

2. Pond Tiling 

3. Proprietary entry mats

4. ST1 & ST2 Stone Benchtops 

5. GL1 & GL2 Glass Splashbacks

6. Tactile Indicators
7. Floor Wastes

8. Rendering
