THE PROJECT
WATERPROOF MEMBRANES
SCOPE OF WORKS


Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract this is a design and construct subcontract and the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant, tools and equipment necessary to design, document, manufacture, deliver,  install and certify the complete WATERPROOF MEMBRANE works required for complete and functioning buildings, fit for there purpose, In its entirety to drawings and Specifications and in accordance with the Contract Conditions, Australian Standards, Industry Codes of Practice, to the satisfaction of all the Authorities as generally described below including but not limited to: 
The following Clauses shall be read in conjunction with the drawings and specifications, available on the Contractors document register website (FTP) and other relevant documents which make up this subcontract to ascertain the total works. Where there are discrepancies, between Architectural, Structural and Subcontractor shop drawings the Architectural drawings will take precedence, followed by shop drawings. 

The Subcontractor is deemed to but not limited to:
1. Examined the tender documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the Contractor to the Subcontractor for the purpose of tendering.
2. Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry.
3.  Has examined all information relevant to the risk, contingencies and other circumstances having an effect on its tender and which is obtainable by making reasonable enquires.
4. Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its tender and that it’s price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Tender Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Tender Documents.
INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW:
The project, Central Facilities is located at the site and will be the central hub for a two hundred, individual cabin, beach resort.

Central facilities consist of five separate buildings numbered one to five:

· Building 1 holds the pool café and bar, two multi purpose rooms and kitchen.
· Building 2 consist of the port-cochere, reception, foyer, restaurant, main kitchen, conference centre and admin offices.
· Building 3 is the day spa and gym.
· Building 4 is housekeeping.
· Building 5 is the pool plantroom.

Central facilities also has a 1000m2 swimming pool and spa.
Buildings 1, 2 and 3 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground in a raft design
· Structural steel frame with composite purlins
· Aluminium framed glazing and doors
· Aluminium roofing

Building 4 and 5 will be made up of:
· Slabs on ground
· Blockwork
· Steel frames and timber trusses
· Metal roof

DESCRIPTION OF WORK AREA:
The scope of work includes but is not limited to the following principal areas:
· Eave gutter and fascia
· Wet areas
· Window reveals
· Blockwork prior to render
· Planter beds
· External trafficable areas
· Plantroom floors

SPECIFIC INCLUSIONS
INSURANCE
Provide Work Cover as per one of the below options:
1. NSW Work Cover Policy.
2. Written confirmation from the workers compensation insurer that this specific project is covered for the duration of the works.
DESIGN
All membrane systems are to be specified for there exact location and application by the supplier. All systems must be approved by the Contractor prior to use.
PROGRAM
Contractor's Program
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that: 
1. it has carefully reviewed the Principals program or proposed program for the project; and 
2. it is able to and shall perform its obligations consistently with any such program. 
Amended Program
If the Principal's program is updated, amended or replaced the Subcontractor shall take whatever action is necessary to perform its obligations consistently with any such program (without becoming obliged to accelerate the whole of the work under the Subcontract so as to bring forward the Date for Practical Completion). The Subcontractor shall not be entitled to any Claim arising out of or in connection with the effects of the Principal's program being updated, amended or replaced.  The Contractordoes not warrant that the project or any other work will be carried out consistently with the Principal's program.
The Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that it has a clear understanding of the allowances for delay made in the Principal's program and has included in its program such delay allowances as it considers necessary. If any such allowances prove inadequate and/or actual delays exceed allowances, then the Subcontractor shall reduce the net duration of its activities accordingly and the Subcontractor has allowed for that reduction, without being entitled to any Claim.
Completion on Time
The Subcontractor shall achieve Practical Completion by the Date for Practical Completion.

PAYMENT CLAIMS
1. All progress claims for payment will only be considered if accompanied by signed off day sheets, by the Contractors supervisors, noting M2/Lm claimed and the area noted. 
2. All progress claims for payment must be accompanied by a marked up drawing showing area claimed for.
TESTING, INSPECTIONS AND WARRANTIES
The Subcontractor is to provide services and product warranties for the following items and durations:
· Gutter and fascia waterproof materials and workmanship – 20 year warranty period
· All other waterproofing materials and workmanship – minimum 15 year warranty Period
· Provision of a defects liability period of 12 months and warranty for the period stated above including all certification and associated costs as required by the relevant Authority. Note that the Subcontract requirements for early handover of Separable Portions of part of the Works will result in extension of equipment warranties which are to be incorporated within the Works. Warranty and Defects Liability periods are to begin from Practical Completion under the Head Contract.
· Water test for minimum of 12 hours all waterproofing to internal areas or external areas over habitable spaces. Records to be kept of water testing and countersigned by the Contractor and provided on completion as part of the Subcontractor’s quality assurance.  Where water testing is not possible allow to carry out “Holiday” testing to the waterproof membrane.
· Gutter and fascia membrane to be fully tested using the “Holiday” testing method.
· All rectification works due to failed test results are the responsibility of the Subcontractor at no cost to the Contractor.
MANUFACTURE, STORAGE AND MATERIALS HANDLING

1. All materials handling will be by the Subcontractor.
2. The Subcontractor must provide all trade specific handling equipment for movement and installation of their work. 

INSTALLATION

3. The Subcontractor is responsible for all surface preparation, primers and subsequent coatings to provide a complete waterproof system to all nominated areas.  This includes for filling / grinding all blow holes, pin holes, recesses, chips, slurry, concrete dags, etc to ensure that the substrate is suitable to accept the membrane as per the project specifications, manufacturers recommendations and relevant standards and codes. 
4. Allow for all floor membranes to turn up walls a minimum 150mm (UNO).  Where there is no wall finish to be applied, allow to tape the wall to provide a neat and straight finished membrane line.   
5. Allow for sand seeding all membranes as per the manufacturers’ recommendations where the membrane is to be covered with a tile bed or a tile.
6. The commencement of the Works will be taken to mean acceptance of such surfaces as being satisfactory and defects in the Works resulting from accepting poor surfaces are to be corrected by the Subcontractor at no cost to the Contractor.
7. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Contractor. 
8. The Subcontractor is to ensure that the waterproofing system is compatible with all substrates, sealants, sealers, paints, patching material, curing compounds, etc that the waterproof system will be in contact with.
9. The Subcontractor has allowed to carry out and document all substrate and waterproof membrane system testing as required by the specifications and manufacturer’s requirements to confirm the substrate is suitable to accept the waterproof membrane system and that the system has been applied in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations.
10. Allow for the protection and/or masking of floors, fittings and similar work.
11. Carry out sample sections on Site as requested by the Contractor and prior to commencement of waterproofing.
12. Ensure that any exposed metal items in concrete are cut off, ground back, epoxy coated and filled prior to patching, skimming/rendering and waterproofing.
13. Provide any extraction fans or ventilation required for fumes, glues and similar items.
14. Precautions must be taken to ensure that there is not health or safety risk to others when toxic or volatile elements are used (eg. two-packs, enamels, polyurethanes, etc).  Any such substances shall comply with all statute and OHS Regulations in this regard. Where required, the Subcontractor will provide adequate signage, barricading, containment and/or mechanical ventilation in the work area and ensure that fumes and overspray are not exhausted into an area where members of the public or workers may be at risk from airborne concentrations of the substance.
15. All waterproofing membranes are to be into/up to and around all pipes, collars, outlets and the like.
16. Provide all membranes to up stands, hobs, etc required to provide continuous water barrier throughout all waterproofed areas.
17. For all membranes not covered by tiles or other finishes allow to carry out slip tests to each of the products in accordance with the relevant Australia Standards / Codes and by a Nata certified testing authority.
18. Drying out as required of all surfaces to receive membrane.  Include provision of primer as required to compensate for concrete dampness to facilitate bonding of the membrane and in accordance with the manufacturers’ recommendation. This also to be allowed to maintain the Contractors program requirements.
19. Ensure that only membranes and systems that have been approved for use by the Contractor are used.
20. Ensure that the waterproofing/tanking is compatible with all sealants and glues that are being adhered to the waterproofing.
21. Where there is a potential for waterproofing solvents to be confined during the curing of waterproofing, the Subcontractor is to provide adequate means to disperse solvents.
22. Attend Site and apply membranes to suit the Contractor’s program requirements.  Allow to complete areas in a staged manner and at different times during the project.  Allow for reactivation of membranes as per the manufacturers’ recommendation.
23. Wash out / cleaning of material / equipment in designated areas only.
24. Install F.C. or coreflute linings to sides and bases of all planter beds or areas to be filled with soil or similar to provide adequate protection to the membrane.
HANDOVER
1. The Subcontractor shall allow for all documentation, certification and the like as per contract documentation and specification to the satisfaction of the Contractor.
MAINTENANCE AND WARRANTIES
1. Provision of comprehensive Warranties fit for purpose, for period of ten (10) years. All warranties commence on the Date of Practical Completion for the Head Contract. 


GENERAL CONDITIONS (ALL SUBCONTRACTORS):
1. BCA 2014 applies, the Subcontractor shall comply with all relevant Acts, Regulations and By-Laws in respect of all work specified herein.
2. The Subcontractor shall comply with all statutory requirements especially the Environment Protection Authority, concerning maximum noise levels, sedimentation control and control of dust. 
3. All workers on site must have completed a recognised industry induction prior to starting on site.
4. The Subcontractor shall ensure that vehicles leaving the site do so in a condition that is in accordance with the Site Environmental Management Plan and EPA requirements.
5. Accept responsibility for and protect all adjacent surfaces from damage and disfigurement that may occur as a result of the Subcontract Works.  Replace all damaged materials and protect finished surfaces to the satisfaction of the Contractor. 
6. The Contractor will provide one datum and two set out points for the subcontractor to work off. No other surveying will be provided.
7. Supervision of all Works to the required standard by personnel licensed and registered as required by statutory regulations and to the satisfaction of the Principal.
8. Coordination and installation of the Subcontract Works with all preceding and following trades.
9. The Subcontractor shall ensure all of the Subcontractor’s personnel are inducted into the Subcontractor’s safety plan and have undertaken training and are competent in all tasks and work procedures.
10. All Subcontractor personnel are to attend Site “toolbox talks” / safety briefs as required at the Principal’s discretion (minimum 1 x weekly and as nominated in the Principals Project Site Safety Plan.
11. All electrical equipment required to carry out these Works must carry tags in conformance with the Workplace Health and Safety Act which includes provisions for monthly checks on all electrical equipment.  Electrical registers to be supplied and maintained.
12. All mobile plant and equipment is to be supplied and maintained to the relevant supply and safety Authority requirements and be maintained in a first class condition at all times.  The Subcontractor is to keep records of maintenance and provide records to the Contractor on request. Copies of last major service records and daily/weekly operator’s checklists to be supplied to the Contractor prior to use.
13. Supply all necessary material safety data sheets, risk assessments, safe work method statements and training records prior to commencement on Site.
14. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to ensure that all of its employees on Site have the correct PPE (Personal Protection Equipment) required for their work tasks.  
15. The Subcontractor is to remove their own rubbish at the end of each day from the work area and place in bins provided by the Principal. The Subcontractor shall empty rubbish into these bins on a regular basis The Subcontractor is responsible to provide their own wheelie bins to transport rubbish to Contractor supplied bins. The Subcontractor shall dispose of all waste material in an approved manner. No material whatsoever including building fittings and fixtures shall be disposed of in non-Contractor approved bins
16. Provide labourers, brooms, shovels, wheelbarrows/wheelie bins etc for regular Site clean ups at the request of the Principal. Should the Subcontractor fail to adhere to regular Site lean-ups, the Contractor will supply labour and equipment at the Subcontractor’s expense.
17. Provide an installation certificate in the form required by the Contractor certifying that the materials and workmanship installed in the Subcontract Works comply with:-
· The Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Australian Standards and good engineering practice covering the installation;
· The requirements of the Subcontract Documents and that the installation is suitable for the intended purpose;
· Completion of all defects and outstanding Works under the Subcontract.

EXCLUSIONS:

· None


SUBCONTRACT AGREED RATES

	ITEM NO.
	DESCRIPTION
	SUBCONTRACT RATE
	MEASUREMNET UNIT

	
	
	
	

	1
	Window reveals
	$____
	Lm

	2
	Wet areas
	$____
	m2

	3
	Gutter and fascia
	$____
	Lm

	4
	External blockwork
	$____
	m2

	5
	Planter beds
	$____
	m2

	6
	Polyuria to trafficable areas (R10/P3 slip rating)
	$____
	m2

	7
	Epoxy floor sealer
	$____
	m2

	
	
	
	




 



