Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract, the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant and equipment to supply, manufacture, install, and certify all Ceilings and Partitions  items necessary for a complete and functioning building, fit for its purpose, including but not limited to the following:

Works Background
Introduction and Overview

This scope of works involves the design and construction of all Ceilings and Partition works to the interior and exterior of the Residential Building of the project, including the supply and install of timber door frames and all related doors and hardware. The Subcontractor is deemed to have included for site establishment, supervision, supply and installation and materials handling as necessary to complete the works as indicated on the drawings and in the contract specifications and as further noted below.

The project is a mixed use retail, commercial and residential development situated between three street frontages.

The Residential Tower is to achieve a 4 Star Green Star Multi Unit Residential V1 Design and As Built rating. The Commercial Tower is to achieve a 5 Star Green Star Office Design and Office As Built V3 rating.

The Sub Contractor is to allow to provide design and delivery to meet the requirements of the respective Green Star credits sought relative to the sub contractors scope.  The Green Star matrices identifying the targets are attached in the specifications section of the contract.

The client is a related entity of the builder.

The Commercial Office Building is along one street frontage of the development. It is 17,500m2 of NLA and is made up of 11 levels plus a plant room.  The ground floor level will be used for Retail.

The Residential Building is made up of 234 units. There are 21 levels plus a roof plant level. The ground floor level will be used for retail.  

The retail building on the secondary street frontage is made up of 4 floors.  Ground and first will be used for retail with levels two and three being commercial.  Facilities for use of the roof terrace are included.

There are 2 full plan area basements and a 3rd basement that covers approximately half of the site under the secondary street frontage.

General Inclusions and Exclusions

The Subcontractor is deemed to, but not limited to, have:

· Examined the Subcontract documents, the works site and its surroundings including any existing buildings or other structures and any other information made available in writing by the builder to the Subcontractor for the purpose of Tendering the package.

· Understood & comply with the National Code of Practice for the Construction Industry. 

· Has satisfied itself as to the correctness and sufficiency of its Tender and that its price covers the cost of complying with all the requirements of the Subcontract Documents and of all matters and things necessary for the due and proper performance and completion of the work described in the Subcontract Documents.

This is a Design & Construct Subcontract. The drawings and specification shall be considered a performance brief nominating the specific minimum fire, acoustic, wind and quality requirements for the project.  The wall/ ceiling types shall be used as a guide only, and the Subcontractor shall be responsible to ensure all wall/ ceiling types satisfy the specified requirements for fire, acoustic, wind and quality and are fit for the intended purpose.  The Subcontractor shall provide written certification of the same prior to substantial completion.


Description of Work Area

Except as may be expressly excluded in the Subcontract, the Subcontractor shall provide all labour, materials, plant and equipment necessary to design, document, manufacture, supply, install and certify the complete Ceilings & Partitions Package within the Residential Building, required for a complete and functioning building, fit for its purpose including but not limited to:

Note:	The Drawings are not complete and do not detail the complete extent of the Works required to all areas, however, the specifications and clarifications identify the standard and quality required. The Subcontractor is to develop and complete the design and coordinate with other building elements, architectural layouts, elevations and schedules prior to substantial commencement of the works.

The Subcontractor shall comply with the design criteria (as detailed in the documents) including structure, wind load, water penetration, energy efficiency and acoustic requirements and provide written confirmation of the same as part of the design and as built certification.  



The scope of work includes but is not limited to the following principal areas: -

Specific Inclusions:
General Notes Inclusive to all areas of work within the project.

1. All the general requirements as necessary to complete the drywalls and ceilings internally and externally to the tower package and related items.

2. All external partitions and internal party wall partitions must be designed and constructed to comply with AS1170.2 The Subcontractor will be required to provide a Form 15 and Form 16 for these partitions. 

3. The builder has worked in consultation with a framing system supplier's engineers to develop suitable framing guidelines and key details (found within Schedule 9). The purpose of these guidelines are to describe minimum requirements for compliance. Notwithstanding, the Subcontractor may use another manufacturer to develop and detail comparable requirements in so long as compliance with AS1170.2 can be demonstrated and a FORM 15 and FORM 16 is provided.

4. The Subcontractor may preload materials on site where practical in advance.  They shall ensure that they have allowed resource/plant to transport all materials horizontally and vertically around site to specific work front locations as and when required.  The Contractor will provide the option of vertical lifting when the cranes are available. This includes for any making good items or completion of their contract works. The unloading and distribution will predominantly be required to be done in the late afternoon / early evening.

5. The Subcontractor has allowed for all labour and supervision costs to work on a number of dedicated work fronts as requested by the Contractor to meet programme requirements.

6. The Subcontractor has allowed to leave incomplete works to facilitate the Contractor’s man and materials hoist, crane ties and loading platforms.  Upon removal of the man and materials, crane ties and loading platforms, allow to re-mobilise to site and complete works including provision of access plant and platforms to safely carry out the works.

7. The Subcontractor has allowed to provide prototype samples for approval by the Contractor and Associated Consultants prior to start as nominated in the specification.

8. The Subcontractor has allowed to provide internal and external protection of the works for the duration of the contract.

9. The Subcontractor has allowed to supply and install all bathroom hardware as per the Subcontract documentation.

10. The Subcontractor will be responsible for the ordering and scheduling of all bathroom hardware.

11. The Subcontractor will be responsible for all storage, movement and protection of all bathroom hardware installed.

12. All work areas to be cleaned daily to the Contractor’s complete satisfaction.  All trade waste and debris to be deposited thoughtfully (boxes broken down etc) into bins provided.

13. The Subcontractor has allowed to co-ordinate and work in with all other trades.

14. The Subcontractor has allowed to make good all adjoining surfaces as requested by the Contractor.

15. The Subcontractor has allowed to supply and install Acoustic insulation.

16. The Subcontractor has allowed to supply and install Thermal insulation and sisalation to all works, excluding roof and metal clad wall.

17. The Subcontractor has allowed to supply and install Access Panels as per the Subcontract documentation and marked up scope drawings.



Residential Building


1. 4 Star Green Star Multi Unit Residential V1 – Design and As built rating is to be achieved. The Subcontractor has included for all requirements to demonstrate compliance the credits relative to the Subcontractors scope. The 4 Star matrix with sought credits is attached in the specifications section of the contract. The Subcontractor shall ensure that all products installed comply with all relevant Greenstar documents.

2. All Ground Floor drywall works inclusive, but limited to the Ground Floor residential foyer, common areas, fire control room, and reception. 

3. External works inclusive of awning soffits, CFC facade and trimdeck panel as per the tender documentation.

4. All Drywall works to the residential tower, inclusive of unit and common areas.

5. All timber door frames and associated doors and hardware.

6. All bathroom hardware to be supplied and installed by the Subcontractor. 

7. The Subcontractor must supply & install all timber framed non fire-rated doors as shown on drawings and schedules.

8. The Subcontractor must supply & install all required packing and trims required to complete door.

9. The Subcontractor must supply & install all frames & door jambs as shown on drawings and other schedules.

10. The Subcontractor must supply & install all door hardware, fittings, hinges, fixtures, locks, keys and other furniture required and shown on drawings and other schedules.

11. The Subcontractor must co-ordinate the installation of all door hardware & accessories subsequent to the completion of the painting trade works.

12. Where pressed metal frames occur in drywalls, the drywall Subcontractor will be required to install the pressed metal frames into its works, inclusive of all required fire rated filling material.

13. Current documentation indicates 90x90 SHS posts strategically positioned around the external perimeter of the residential building floor levels to stiffen the single stud external wall partitions. These posts will be deleted. The Tenderer is required to design and construct the external walls using suitable steel stud framing to achieve adequate stiffness and rigidity when exposed to the designed wind pressures. The design and construction of the framing must be certified by a RPEQ and FORM 15 & 16 provided accordingly. The documented wall setout and stud width is to be maintained.

14. Current documentation indicates a party wall system of variable thickness achieving minimum fire and acoustic performance requirements. If the Subcontractor chooses to use an alternative system, the system must be approved by the Contractor and must  meet all original performance requirements.

15. All daily checks, competences and compliance of use will be by the Subcontractor.

16. The Subcontractor has allowed for all access panels as per the Subcontract documentation.

17. The Subcontractor has included for 2 hour fire protection around the electricity distributor cabling running along the underside of the Ground Floor Soffit.

18. The Subcontractor has included for the shaftwall within stair 3 to be constructed of 75mm lightweight concrete shaft wall panel.



TRADE CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT - CEILINGS AND PARTITIONS

Note: Also refer to and include for the General (All Subcontract) Trade Conditions: TC 001

The extent of the Subcontract Works shall also include for, be subject to but not be limited to the following:

1. This is a design and construct Subcontract with the Subcontractor having full responsibility for all aspects of design and construction to enable the installation of all components and associated Works to function correctly. The Subcontractor shall ensure that all relevant codes, manufacturers’ recommendations and specifications, local Authority, regulations and current good design and installation practices are complied with.
2. The following specifies the ceilings and partitions, basic requirements but is not intended to describe all aspects of the ceilings and partitions in detail or ceilings and partitions requirements. Any performance requirements or equipment details which are not specifically described in the following but is required for the complete design, installation, operation and Authority Certification of the ceilings and partitions shall be provided and shall be included as part of the Subcontract Works.
3. Design, document, shop draw, manufacture, supply, delivery, installation and certification of the following ceilings and partition items in accordance with the Subcontract Documents, relevant codes, Authority requirements, Building Services Authority requirements, Building Code of Australia, Australian Standards and good building practice:-
a) Walls and ceilings; including walls, battering walls, walls above roof or adjoining buildings, parapet backs, nib walls, ceilings, soffits of stairs, margins surrounding other materials and other similar items;
b) Beams and column casings;
c) Cornices and mouldings including fitted ends, mitred angles, corner pieces, outlets and similar items;
d) Stopping the internal angle between ceiling and wall;
e) Metal and/or plastic trims and similar reinforcements to external angles, internal angles and edges;
f) Vent faces whether flush or projecting;
g) Suspended grid ceiling systems, coffered ceilings and similar suspended ceilings;
h) Flush plasterboard or fibre cement ceilings;
i) Raking and circular cutting;
j) Forming openings for access panels, lighting recesses, air grilles, door openings and similar items;
k) Junctions of ceilings with walls, columns, pelmets and similar items including any cutting, edge trims and additional suspension;
l) Bulkheads, beam casing and similar items;
m) Lighting pelmets, troughs and recesses including cutting of penetrations for lights.
n) Wardrobe stud walls and sheeting.
o) Studs and sheeting to walls beneath stairs and provide adequate support for stairs.
p) Lift head and reveal linings as lift door frames are not full depth.

4. Full implementation of the Contractor’s mandatory task complete checklists as required under the builder's quality system. Also ensure that the Works are installed in accordance with the “the builder's Waterproofing and Tiling Manual”.
5. The only waterproofing products used are the ones listed in the “Waterproofing Product – Location and Membrane Band(1)” document. These waterproofing products must only be used in the locations shown in this document.
6. Supply and installation of supporting timber, framing or metalwork such as battens, grounds, runners, brackets, hangers and similar items.
7. External salient angles, edges set and finished with solid plastering in same plane, cutting and making good around sprinkler heads and similar items.
8. Applying ceilings and partitions to bases/substrates such as concrete, brickwork, blockwork, expanded lathing and similar items.
9. Treatment of base/substrate such as backing, applying bonding agent, dubbing out existing walls or similar items.
10. Cutting and/or making good around pipes, sanitary fixtures and similar.
11. Labour to internal angles.
12. Curing of finished work.
13. Cleaning down, covering, protecting and masking surfaces.
14. Double studs to be used for thicker walls as indicated or required but not shown.
15. Boxed studs to door opening or openings requiring additional support.
16. MDF and plasterboard bulkhead detail to blind recesses.
17. All Works to be completed in accordance with AS2785 Suspended Ceilings – Design and Installation and AS2589 Gypsum Linings.
18. All Works to be completed in accordance with the Building Code of Australia.  Provide all certification necessary to confirm compliance with the relevant Sections of the Building Code of Australia.
19. Coordinate the construction of all ceilings and partitions Works with other trades and install all trims, noggings and the like as per their requirements.

20. Form and trim all penetrations for all pipes, light fittings and the like whether similar in nature to the foregoing or not.
21. All required thermal and acoustic insulation to the project as shown in the Subcontract Documents. Comply with the Acoustic Specification and further recommendations of the Contractor’s acoustic engineer consultant. Ensure the required acoustic ratings are achieved for the wall and ceiling systems and be responsible for same. Include for all laps, square cutting, waste, nails, screws, clips, rivets, straps, provision for thermal movement, isolation of dissimilar materials, temporary screeds, rules, grounds, and fixing of wall cladding in vertical or horizontal as required. This is to include for, but not be limited to the following:-
· Insulation fully adhered to slab soffits of balconies and terraces in areas indicated in the Subcontract Documents;
· Insulation to steel stud walls generally;
· Insulation blanket laid over ceiling in areas indicated in the Subcontract Documents;
· Acoustic lining and insulation to the plant room walls.
· Appropriate type, thickness and quantity of lining materials to wall and ceiling systems.
22. Stand, plumb, brace and build in all door frames and glazed panels to partitions as detailed on the Subcontract Documents.  Remove spreader bars from door frames.
23. Build in cavity wall sliders (supplied by the Subcontractor) to partitions/ walls.
24. Coordinate with the door/hardware installer for the installation of the bifold sliding door tracks etc. including the provision of all necessary noggins.
25. Construct all metal stud and/or timber framing to all partitions, ceilings and bulkheads and baffles.
26. Install and finish to a standard satisfactory to the Contractor, linings to walls, ceilings and bulkheads and baffles to lines and locations as specified and/or shown on the Subcontract Documents.
27. Supply and install any and all removable panels or access panels shown on the Subcontract Documents or required by other trade contractors. Review all services drawings and allow for any and all panels required in the Head Contract Works.
28. Trim existing ceilings where new partitions penetrate.
29. All skirtings, mouldings, trims, door frames, floors, hardware, integral glass panels or partitions and any ancillary items shall be carried out and is part of the Subcontract Works.  Flexible gap sealant shall be installed as required.
30. Provide any additional packing to walls, columns etc as required to maintain lines in plasterboard surfaces.
31. Remove all excess material and plaster droppings from adjoining surfaces.  Protect finished adjoining surfaces from damage/marking.
32. 10mm X 10mm shadowline gaps to junctions in ceiling.
33. Ensure packers to form shadowlines at walls are painted prior to installation and cleaned on completion.
34. Corner bead tape and feather plaster at wall / window/ ceiling junctions.
35. Coordination with the Contractors windows Subcontractor to ensure that walls align with the window mullions and similar items.
36. Cutting out penetrations for lights, air conditioning vents/grilles and similar items. Marking out by services Subcontractors.
37. Connect into existing works, make good and finish to the Contractor’s satisfaction.
38. Provide all noggings/supports in ceilings and walls (existing or new) for all other trades such as but not limited to, fittings, fixtures, equipment, joinery, hardware, appliances and similar items. Timber and/or plywood noggings for bathroom fixtures, kitchen fixtures and cloths dryers.
39. The Subcontractor shall supply, install and unload all bathroom accessories (supplied by the Subcontractor) and have supervisor in attendance to accept all deliveries.  Upon delivery and acceptance the Subcontractor will be responsible for these items.  Allow to store bathroom accessories on the Site for use as required.
40. The Subcontractor shall at the time of receipt of the bathroom accessories advise the Contractor of any incorrect deliveries or items in order to minimise any delays to the Head Contract Works construction programme.
41. The Subcontractor shall transport the bathroom accessories from storage area to final position.
42. Supply and install bulkhead behind overhead cupboards to conceal services.
43. Supply and install stud framing and sheeting to cistern enclosure walls and walls beneath vanity cupboard.
44. Ensure all finished plasterboard surfaces are handed over to the Contractors painting trade Subcontractor in a completely finished state and in a first class finish ready to accept paint or applied finishes.  The cost of repainting any patches after the completion of painting first coat will be to the ceiling and partition Subcontractor’s cost.  Coordinate with the Contractors painting Subcontractor to allow final substrate patch (by the Subcontractor) to be completed after the application of the first coat sealer/primer and obtain acceptance of finish by the painter and Contractor.
45. Supply and install blocking/packing/nogging pieces in stud wall/ceilings for fixing of kitchen overhead cupboards, vanity and vanity overhead cupboards, handrails, robe hooks, toilet paper rolls, glass shelves, towel rails, rails to handicapped toilet and other similar items as required for support.
46. All necessary acoustic baffles in ceiling spaces to maintain the acoustic integrity of areas as required by the Building Code of Australia having regard to mechanical and hydraulic services.
47. All ceilings and partitions are to have the fire and acoustic performance required by the Building Code of Australia and the Subcontract Documents, for their particular location and are to be constructed in accordance with manufacturers details to conform with tested and certified systems.
48. All bulkheads and drop ceilings to conceal services constructed to the necessary fire and acoustic ratings.
49. Furring to fix wall sheeting to receive ceramic or stone tiling.
50. Allow to:
(a) Seal between setting beads and window or door frames.
(b) Provide all necessary deflection heads, joints and other details to provide for structure movements and deflection.
(c) Access panels.
(d) Pelmets.
(e) Penetrations and trimming.
(f) Cornices.
(g) Nibs and hobs.
(h) Insulation to suit acoustic requirements.
(i) Sealing and caulking to wet area linings.
(j) Furring and packing to eliminate wall chasing.
(k) Certification as required.
(l) Expansion joints and dissimilar backing structure joints as required to vertical and horizontal elements.
(m) Skim where necessary nib wall to minimise the effect of setting system build out.
51. Ensure airshafts and ducts are airtight and adequately sealed.
52. Coordination of ceilings with services to ensure everything fits. Provide alternative solution if services do not fit. 
53. All materials shall be scheduled and delivered to minimise waste material generated on Site.
54. Wall sheeting to be kept clear of floor surface minimum 5mm.
55. Ensure all fixings comply with the relevant class for the corrosivity category in which the project is located.  For self drilling fasteners, refer to AS3566.2
56. When installing bathroom hardware to walls which have a waterproof lining, any penetration which cuts the waterproof lining must be rectified to the Contractors approval.
All holes cut out for services in bathroom areas must to set out and drilled, not penetrated with a hammer.
