	100	AS 2545—1993

SCHEDULE 1A 	- SCOPE OF WORKS
1. SCOPE OF WORKS 
0. GENERAL
The Scope of Works comprises the Electrical and Communications Services to the project as defined and in accordance with the requirements of:
This Scope of Works;
Subcontract Documents; and
The Subcontract and Schedules.
Unless specifically excluded herein.

Unless noted otherwise, the Scope of Works is to allow for the provision of all preliminaries, labour (1 labour assistant person per 14 trades personnel, or part thereof), supervision, materials, tools, plant, equipment, insurances and sundry items for the supply, documentation (e.g. shop drawings, O&M, QA etc.), design finalisation, installation, manufacture, transport and satisfactory completion of the Subcontract Works in accordance with the Subcontract documents, all relevant statutory codes, codes of practice, Australian Standards and the National Construction Code (NCC).
For avoidance of doubt, the Scope of Works includes all items described in the Electrical and Communications Services Specifications as well as items listed, nominated, implied and/or shown on the Drawings and Other Documents relating to the Works unless specifically excluded herein. 
All requirements of the Subcontract Documents, including but not limited to the Drawings and Specifications, are included in the Subcontractor Sum, regardless of whether specifically identified in the pricing schedule, unless specifically identified as an exclusion.
References to the “Electrical Subcontractor”, “Communications Subcontractor”, “Electrical and Communications Subcontractor” or “services subcontractors” contained within this Scope of Works are to be interpreted as references to the Subcontractor.
References to the “Tenderer”, “Contractor”, “Builder” or the like contained in the Subcontract Documents, for the purposes of the Works, are to be interpreted as references to the Subcontractor.
In certain instances, there will be more than one subcontractor assigned to a Trade Package and as such, the builder reserves the right to add or remove to or from the Scope of Works of any subcontract package at its discretion.
0. OVERVIEW
This Scope of Works is to be read in conjunction with the Project Conditions which forms Schedule 1B of the Subcontract Agreement. The extent of the Works shall include, but not be limited to, all the following sections:
0. Design; 
General requirements;
Trade Specific;
Completion Requirements;
Subcontract Documents;
Pricing Schedule;
Programming Requirements;
Appendix A - Common Cell Riser Main Frame (CCRMF);
Appendix B - Design Responsibility Matrix;
Appendix C - Building Works/Interface Responsibility Matrix;
Appendix D - Principals Requirements for Completion Testing at the project; and
Appendix E - Demarcation Schedule - Electrical/Comms | ICT | Security.

1. DESIGN
1. General
The Works shall include for the design, finalisation obligations and engineering of the Electrical and Communications Services.  Allow for the finalisation of the design and coordination with other trades for in-building and under slab.  The Drawings and Specifications illustrate the design intent of the Works. Design finalisation shall include but not be limited to:
0. Review and confirmation of final design calculations, to confirm that they are suitable for compliance with the Specification and relative to the proposed requirements;
0. Final selection of all materials and equipment in accordance with the Subcontract Documents which will be subject to review and approval by the consultant, the builder, and the Principal;
0. Details of pit quantity and typical pit details for each pit type; 
0. Layout drawings including routing with accuracy as required for coordination purposes;
0. Details of interfaces with other services;
0. Coordination with other services, to ensure all architectural, structural, civil and services items have been considered when completing the shop drawings;
0. Hazardous zone compliance definition and design for flammable store and chemical store if nominated on Drawings;
0. The Subcontractor shall produce all design and documentation necessary to adequately and clearly document the Works including but not limited to drawings, 3D models, specifications, schedules, sketches, models, calculations, reports, workshop drawings and the like;
0. The Subcontractor shall progress the design of the Works so as not to cause delay to the Construction Programme or to the work of other contractors;
0. The Subcontractor will attend regular design meetings, workshops and reviews as required by the builder in a location determined by the builder;
0. Plant and equipment layouts, sizing’s and dimensions, including provisions for maintenance access;
0. Confirmation that all spatial and clearance requirements are adequate;
0. Cable and tray sizing and quantity layouts, distribution systems, equipment, spatial allocation, final coordination with all other building elements and trades;
0. Reproduction of all single line diagrams and schematics by verification of system performance and capacities prior production of shop drawings;
0. Panel/plant drawings and details;
0. Whilst the Subcontractor is required to design to all performance and legislative requirements, design finalisation shall not entail the reduction of scope from that of the preliminary design intent (such as reducing sizes, capacities, aesthetics) without prior written approval from the builder;
0. The Subcontractor shall name shop drawings, models files and other documents file names and drawing numbers according to the project document naming convention;
0. Confirmation that all selected materials and equipment are adequate for its intended use;
0. Construction details;
0. Production of fully dimensioned penetration drawings for all structural slabs/walls and full height walls;
0. Coordination, review, and finalisation of the BIM model;
0. Shop drawings which must be submitted to and approved by the builder, six weeks prior to fabrication or construction commencement;
0. Labelling methodology and schedule;
0. Input of data for Facility Maintenance register within the Operations and Maintenance manual of all assets that exceed $____ in value or are an Electrical device that requires periodical maintenance (excel spreadsheet to be provided periodically);
0. Production of fully dimensioned fire collar, damper and fire penetration register;
0. As built and as constructed survey. As-built documents are to be provided progressively to the satisfaction of the builder, no later than a week after Substantial Completion of each building, or for infrastructure, no later than a week after Substantial Completion of the neighbourhood or site; 
0. Any alterations made to the For Construction drawings and site alterations must be captured within the model and as-built documentation; 
0. In circumstances where the Subcontractor provides engineering input and value management into the design, the Subcontractor acknowledges that any associated change in design which impacts the Subcontractor's existing Scope of Works has been contemplated and allowed for. The Subcontractor further acknowledges that is has advised the builder of any related impact on other contractors;
0. Spare capacity requirements are nominated within the Specification however if the direction or route the Subcontractor selects to reticulate their cabling adjusts the capacities of the pathways for these systems, and the spare capacity levels are exceeded, the Subcontractor would need to revise the sizing to suit;
0. HV protection scheme / philosophy and arc flash analysis. The consultant will provide a protection report and issue to the Subcontractor. It is expected that the Subcontractor will undertake protection study based on actual equipment used  and update the report. The Subcontractor will be responsible for the under taking an arc flash analysis based on the actual equipment used on the Project;
0. Coordinate with other trades on site and obtain the latest electrical loads, review and confirm if the design allowances are adequate;
0. Undertake detail wiring and control diagrams as part of the shop drawing and detailing process and coordinate these works with other trades;
0. Detailed design and production of shop drawings for all single line diagrams including VTs, CTs, metering function, interlocks and interfaces to the SCADA system;
0. Undertake detailed design calculations based on actual equipment selected CT and VT class and burden calculations;
0. Provision of protection study and setting report based on the actual equipment selected using the design intent of the consultant's Protection Report. This includes discrimination study for LV protection including discrimination with HV protective devices. The Subcontractor is responsible for providing an updated protection report as part of As Built documentation; 
0. Provision of a fault study report based on actual equipment used;
0. Provision of detailed power system study based on actual equipment utilised for the project;
0. Detailed design of substations based on actual equipment utilised for the project; and
0. Detailed design and modification to the existing HV and standby generator systems and integrated Subcontractor Works. The Subcontractor is responsible to auditing the works to determine works required to modify the 11kV system as required to meet the design requirements.

1. Digital Engineering Requirements (BIM)
0. Engage with the builder, consultants, and other contractors to deliver the Digital Engineering process;
0. Design and document in accordance with the current version of the Digital Engineering Management Plan (DEMP) document ____;
0. The Subcontractor will be supplied the latest model produced by the consultants to assist with their coordination and production of modelling and shop drawings. No responsibility will be taken by the builder for the quality of the model provided;
0. Produce models in compliance with the LOD Matrix contained within the Digital Engineering Management Plan. When discussing Level of Development (LOD) Digital Engineering Management Plan refers to the latest LOD Specification produced by BIMForum. The Subcontractor shall familiarise themselves with this document. For simplicity, it can be assumed;
(i) Shop Drawings - LOD400; and
(ii) As-Builts – LOD400;
0. Update model to reflect any issued variations, changes in design or constructability issues. Changes to be captured in the model and on drawings within two weeks of receipt of notification;
0. Provide a suitably qualified Project team capable of undertaking the design, modelling and coordination process;
0. Provide an organisation chart identifying the proposed Project structure and governance, including Digital Engineering roles (BIM Lead, Model Authors etc.);
0. Training of Subcontractor in the use of software to develop the 3D model to meet the Project requirement is the responsibility of the builder. The Subcontractor will be supplied the builder's Capability and Capacity Form, ‘document ____’ and the Subcontractor is to return this form with their Tender submission. The builder's Digital Engineering leads will organise a presentation so this Subcontractor can demonstrate their capability and capacity;
0. The intention is to create a fully coordinated model in two stages in accordance with the Construction Programme:
(i) Combined services in ground route and local discipline specific routes; and
(ii) Buildings including in ground reticulation from external to internal;
0. The BIM federated services model will be used to create the coordinated ceiling plans in conjunction with the Architect. The Subcontractor is to show all access panel requirements including location of ceiling access panels; and
0. The Subcontractor shall only work in Autodesk Revit (release as specified in the Digital Engineering Management Plan) and must have an active BIM360 subscription. No other format will be acceptable.
1. Lead Coordinator Roles
For the purposes of coordination, the lead subcontractor for each element will be as follows;
0. The Mechanical subcontractor shall be lead for BIM coordination for above slab Building services;
0. The Mechanical subcontractor shall be the lead for all works and layouts within plant rooms. The Architect shall provide a shell for the Mechanical subcontractor to finalise plant layouts, floor waste locations, electrical switchboard locations within plant room etc;
0. The Communications Subcontractor is required to provide all rack, cable and communications equipment layouts for each communications room and cupboard to the Mechanical subcontractor. The Mechanical subcontractor shall then assume the lead role for these areas;
0. The Hydraulics subcontractor shall be regarded as lead trade for BIM coordination for below slab and inground services;
0. The Hydraulics subcontractor shall be regarded as lead trade for design coordination then off-site prefabrication, delivery to site then installation of the Common Cell services risers main frames;    
0. The Mechanical subcontractor is to develop and be responsible for the fire matrix plus be the lead in all fire matrix testing (except for the Gate House SER). This includes warm smoke testing in nominated locations. For the Gate House SER gas discharge system, the Fire Protection subcontractor is to develop and be responsible for the fire matrix, including being the lead for all associated fire matrix testing;
0. The Mechanical subcontractor is to be responsible for confirming scope of BMS interfaces with other contractors, type of interfaces and proving their operation. This will require a BMS operator to be present to confirm BMS interface operability when other contractors test their systems; and
0. The Electrical Subcontractor is to develop and be responsible for the testing and commissioning procedures and time program works associated with the new 11kV generator synchronising with the existing HV generators and HV network. Testing will involve power outages and all services subcontractors will be required to be in attendance of all test to confirm the operation of their respective systems and plant under various scenarios. The Electrical Subcontractor will conduct as many power outages required during the testing, client witness testing and commissioning phases to satisfy both the builder and the Client that the standby generator power system is functioning in accordance with the project requirements. 

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
1. General
0. Where there is a discrepancy within the Subcontract Documents, the Subcontractor shall ensure they have allowed all cost and compliance with the most onerous condition;
0. The labour structure set-up on site used as a basis for creating the Construction Programme is that the builder and all trades will be dedicated to one of the following areas:
(i) Construction Group 1 - Secure buildings;
(ii) Construction Group 2 – Residential buildings;
(iii) Construction Group 3 – All other buildings (commonly named as “Support buildings”); and
(iv) Construction Group 4 - Site wide works;
0. The Construction Programme assumes that all activities – design, through construction and through commissioning and handover all have independent team structures for each of the above groups.  This structure will be reflected in all activities e.g. Design co-ordination meetings and on-site subcontractor meetings;
0. Obvious work: Work of an obvious nature may not be documented. Any item or method of construction which is usual and proper, but not specifically mentioned shall be deemed to be included in the works;
0. Items shown on the drawings but not specified or vice versa shall be deemed to be included in the Works;
0. The Subcontractor shall progress and complete the Works in accordance with (or earlier than) the Construction Programme;
0. The Subcontractor shall allow for all out of sequence works and return visits necessary to complete the Works;
0. The Subcontractor shall comply with all the builder Management Plans to the furthest extent they are applicable to the Works;
0. The Subcontractor shall ensure compliance with the On-site Steel Welding Procedure;
0. The Subcontractor shall allow for all return visits to co-ordinate the Works around penetrations formed by others;
0. The Subcontractor shall co-ordinate and co-operate with the builder and all other contractors during the course of the Works;
0. The Subcontractor shall use the document management system for all project communication, document control and transfer of information;
0. The Subcontractor shall allow for compliance with all Statutory Requirements and Approvals including the conditions and requirements attached to any Approval and compliance with the requirements of all relevant approving authorities to the furthest extent they are relevant to the Works, including and fees and costs associated (unless specifically excluded);
0. The Subcontractor shall provide all survey and set out required for the Works. Should the Subcontractor adopt set-out performed by others, the Subcontractor shall remain responsible for its accuracy;
0. The Subcontractor shall be responsible for the protection of the Works until the Date of Substantial Completion;
0. The Subcontractor must submit to the builder for approval, proposed products or materials to be utilised for temporary protection of the Works, prior to use. Approval by the builder will not negate the Subcontractor’s responsibility for any damage caused to the Works by use of those products or materials;
0. The Subcontractor shall remove all installed temporary protection measures upon completion of the Works and leave the Works clean and free from any defects;
0. The Subcontractor shall allow for the final trade cleaning of the Works;
0. The Subcontractor shall ensure that all materials and fixings are suitable for use with those materials they come in contact with to eliminate corrosion or any other reaction caused by dissimilar metals; 
0. The Subcontractor shall allow for the supply and installation of non-pick caulking and bedding to their installed items, where nominated on the Drawings or Specification. The Subcontractor shall separate the costs for the non-pick caulking around their items  in the Pricing Schedule;
0. The Subcontractor shall protect adjoining works of other contractors;
0. The Subcontractor shall be deemed to have inspected site and to have fully informed itself of the nature of the work under the Main Contract and the Subcontract;
0. The Subcontractor is required to comply with obligations under the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Engagement Strategy, and provide the necessary framework to achieve a minimum of 3% inclusion for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in the area of employment;  ;
0. The Subcontractor has allowed for all site measurements, setting out and levelling their work as required;
0. It is the responsibility of the Subcontractor to ensure that they are working off the current Drawings, Specifications and other documents, and to ensure that they highlight any discrepancies or missing information that may exist. No claim for additional costs or extension of time will be considered as a result of the Subcontractor’s oversight in drawing amendments or planning;
0. The Subcontractor is deemed to be made an assessment on the measurements provided on the documents and included any discrepancies;
0. The Subcontractor shall provide fire sealing of all services penetrations that breach a dedicated fire barrier with a product approved by the builder. The Subcontractor will provide a fire penetration register for each building and third party certification (by a builder approved certifier) of the product used and the installation; 
0. If there is a conflict within the documents forming the Subcontract, it shall be deemed that the Subcontractor has allowed for the higher specification;
0. Seismic design signed off by third party registered structural engineer and installation of required restraints as required by the Specification and standards;
0. Exposed ladders/trays/conduits in prisoner accessible areas are not permitted but if an exemption is granted, ladders/trays/conduits are to be provided with complete metal shrouds (minimum 3mm sheet metal with security fixings) to eliminate any contraband being hidden/stored or reduced the potential for a ligature point;
0. Subcontractor to ensure they familiarise themselves with the structural drawings when tendering. The construction of suspended slabs varies across the Site between insitu (traditional), bondek and precast base. It will be assumed that the subcontractor has made all necessary allowances for these differing construction methods;
0. The builder is required to undertake a metal detection survey of the Site at various stages of the Project, to verify that there is no risk of buried metal objects being present at Practical Completion. The Subcontractor shall ensure that all metal objects (such as nails, screws, corrugated iron etc) are either disposed of in the waste bins provided, or removed from Site. Further to this, the Subcontractor is to carry out a clean sweep of its work front on a daily basis to ensure no metal objects remain. The Subcontractor is to ensure that this requirement is clearly communicated with its employees and secondary subcontractors. In the event that the Subcontractor fails to complete this task, the builder will carry this out on the Subcontractor's behalf and associated costs will be back charged to the Subcontractor; 
0. The Subcontractor must supply and install mounting plates for corrugated profiles where installing fixtures against corrugated walls and ceilings, in accordance with all requirements of the Commonality of Engineering Services;
0. The Subcontractor is required to provide routine electrical maintenance of the site accommodation. This scope is to include monthly visual inspections of electrical system, replacement of lamps, emergency lighting test and repairs, testing and tagging, Residual Current Device (RCD) testing plus reporting of inspections and works done.; 
Electrical Services shall include communication and security services as per the demarcation schedule in Appendix E; and
The Subcontractor is responsible for the satisfactory removal of any marking paint they apply as part of the set out for their works. Additional care is to be taken to minimise or eliminate the use of spray paint on substrates to receive future vinyl finishes.

1. Interface with Works Already let at the project
An early works contract has been let for the Combined Services Trench (CST) around the Site perimeter.  The CST subcontractor’s responsibilities included provision of data including all test results into the electronic operation and maintenance manuals.  As part of this Scope of Works, the Subcontractor is to allow to connect to the CST works, and integrate all CST scope within any testing/ commissioning activities required.  The Subcontractor is required to check  the integrity of all CST installation works including inspection of cleanliness inside conduits and pits before integration with new works.  All associated costs to be included within this Subcontract. Upon connection to the CST, the Subcontractor is deemed to have fully accepted the condition of the service and its extension to the Site.
The Subcontractor is required to produce an Inspection and Test Plan (ITP) for all works associated with integration and connection of all underground pit and conduit system. The following must be included as part of this ITP:
0. Check that all the pits and conduits are clear and free of debris, if not clear debris to allow the cabling works to be undertaken;
0. Check that all the draw wires are provided in all conduits and they are free and can be used for the main works as a draw wire for other draw wires required to install the cabling. If not clear debris and provide draw wires in preparation to allow the cabling works to be undertaken;
0. Check that all the pit drainage is free from debris; and
0. Check that all conduits are capped (not glue to prevent the ingress of water and debris). Where not provided they are to be installed under this scope, conduit caps are to be kept on at all times except while cables are being installed. 
1. Survey set out and as-builts
0. The Subcontractor shall allow for the services survey set out for all pits, pipes, bends, valves etc to facilitate the installation of their service;
0. Site recording of installed inground services, for the sole purpose of as-builts, will be carried out by the Managing Contractor’s surveyor. This includes the following however excludes below building slab services;
98. Pipe invert and location; 
98. Pit invert, surface level and location; and
98. Fire hydrants;
0. The Subcontractor is responsible for ensuring full coordination with the Managing Contractor’s surveyor to ensure all inground works are surveyed, prior to back filling or covering or closing of pits. Any cost associated with re-surveying works by the Managing Contactor’s Surveyor due to a lack of coordination by the Subcontractor will be charged to the Subcontractor. This does not limit the responsibility of the Subcontractor in any way and recording of as-built information remains the full responsibility of the Subcontractor; and
0. Site recording of all remaining services installed by the Subcontractor is the responsibility of the Subcontractor.
1. Excavation
0. All trenching, excavation, vacuum excavation (where required by the builder permits), rock breaking, bedding, backfilling, and compaction to be to be in accordance with the Civil Specification; 
0. Allow for the existing ground conditions – refer to the Geotechnical Report;
0. Excavation in rock is excluded from the Subcontract Sum. Rock shall be any material unable to be ripped with an 8t excavator. Where rock is encountered, survey pickup will be completed by the Subcontractor, and this will be used to define the quantity of rock excavation required;
0. Stockpile of excess spoil to approved locations on Site; 
0. Excavation to facilitate the installation of conduits, pits, warning tape etc. for the permanent installation as detailed;
0. Any conduits laid within the Electrical or Communications services trench that may be impacted upon by UV exposure or climatic conditions, must be covered over with 300mm bedding material to protect the conduits until such time as the trench is back filled and compacted in accordance with the Civil Specification. Additionally, other Electrical and Communications service pipes not effected by UV exposure or climatic conditions are to be ‘weighed down’ by sandbags, spot filling or similar, until such time as the services trench is back filled in accordance with the Civil Specification;
0. Ensure where excavations cross any temporary roads and or paths they are reinstated to the same quality and condition, including compaction standard, as prior to the excavation;
0. Provide services trench dewatering as required;
0. Supply and installation of all approved imported material for back filling the excavated works as required by the Civil Specification;
0. Installation of underground pipework to be as per the Potable Water Reticulation Management Handbook (document ____), the manufacturer’s instructions and or the Specification to which ever document has the most onerous outcome;
0. Installation of warning tape for all in ground services. Tape to match that installed by the CST trade and contain trace wire, brought up to the associated pit;
0. Protection and ongoing maintenance of in ground services that extend above ground; and
0. Where in ground connections are to be connected to above ground services, they shall rise up at their exact location and be capped ready for above ground connection at a later stage.
1. Pits and Pit Lid Security
0. Pit lid fixings: Pit lids for all services are to be secured by the same type of tamper-resistant security bolt fixing. The Subcontractor shall allow a minimum of two tamper-resistant security bolt fixings per pit lid and/ or grate. Bolt types can range from M10, M12 and M16 with a common head sizing of 19 mm which shall be rebated into lid to finish flush with pit surface. The tamper-resistant security bolts shall not be installed until final pit clean and commission.  the builder shall, in conjunction with the Subcontractor and other service subcontractors, develop common head pattern type which will be used across the Site. The Subcontractor shall allow to provide a minimum of 10% of total tamper-resistant security bolt numbers/types as spares, and a minimum of three master key sockets to the builder, a minimum of six weeks prior to the Date for Substantial Completion Type to be as advised by the builder;
0. Anti-tamper fixings: Any fixings accessible from above with the pit lid closed, for example directional arrows, are to be of the anti-tamper type. The head type of the fixings is to be as directed by the builder;
0. Provision of pit drainage into stormwater;
0. Comply with the Project Labelling Strategy, which applies to all pits;
0. Subcontractor to supply three sets of proprietary pit lid lifters (proprietary or alike) for hand over to the builder prior to Substantial Completion, for free issue to the facilities manager; and
0. Installation of free issue padlocks on all communication pits (including those within the Common Services Trench).
1. Not Used
1. In slab conduits, Voids and Photographic Records Required
0. It is a builder safety requirement that no conduits are be installed in-slab unless there is no alternative. If an in-slab conduit must be installed, conduit(s) must be kept as short as possible and must be shown on the associated as-built drawing; and
0. During construction, voids with services are to be photographed and catalogued prior to sealing as well as locations of any services or conduits with slabs prior to pouring. All Inspection and Test Plans (ITPs) are to include this scope. All photos are to be added into the O&M manuals, complete with drawing(s) mark-up of where photos were taken and photo file names suitably cross referenced with drawing(s) plus providing date taken. System to be approved by the builder with all files and photos available for audit at any time.  
1. Precast Elements and Common Cell Riser Main Frames
0. There will be up to three precast subcontractors for walls and suspended slabs – one per work area. Each precast subcontractor will produce shop drawings based off the model provided. The Subcontractor is required to review all precast shop drawings and mark up its service requirements. More complicated elements may require several reviews as precasting will not proceed until the associated workshop drawing(s) are comment free:
(i) The three precast factories will be in the region with the suppliers yet to be determined;   
(ii) The Electrical Subcontractor is responsible for the supply and installation of all standard conduits and J-boxes to be installed in the precast elements for electrical, communications, security, mechanical, fire and hydraulics services.  The Electrical Subcontractor will use the respective subcontractor’s documentation for the installation and will not be responsible for any errors or omissions by other trades on the drawings. Also:
i. If any nontypical backing boxes (eg intercoms, door release buttons) are to be installed, these are to be supplied free of charge by the associated trade to the Electrical Subcontractor for installation; 	Comment by reviewer: reviewer circled to check 
ii. The Electrical Subcontractor is to allow to provide block outs for any nontypical backing boxes for the security services; and
iii. If nontypical conduit radius bends (eg. data cabling) are required, this must be detailed on the precast workshop drawing(s) plus bends are to be supplied free of charge by the associated trade to the Electrical Subcontractor for installation;
(iii) The Hydraulics subcontractor is responsible for the supply and installation of all hydraulic pipes (not conduits) to be installed in the precast elements for hydraulics services;	Comment by reviewer: This left as is? Altered in Fire
(iv) The Subcontractor is required to attend the precast factory as and when scheduled by the precast manufacturer. This may involve out of normal hours work; 
(v) The Precast subcontractor will be responsible for all block outs and will not be responsible for any errors or omissions on the drawings relating to any services trade;
(vi) Refer to the Construction Programme for precast works.  The factory precasting program will not be delayed due to lack of input from this Subcontractor; and
0. The Subcontractor shall be present during all concrete pours, both on Site and at the precast yard, to ensure any cast in items installed by the Subcontractor remain in position during the concrete pour. The Subcontractor will be responsible for any rectification works due to items not being installed in accordance with the drawings, moving out of position, or becoming damaged or blocked during the concrete pour process;
0. For the prefabricated Common Cell riser main frames, a prototype assembly is to be design coordinated then fabrication completed for approval by the builder before mass production begins. Refer to Appendix A to this Scope of Works for further details;
0. All on Site coring for penetrations required by the Subcontractor, to be completed by the Subcontractor. Responsibility for staining of fair faced precast panels and clean-up by the Subcontractor; and
0. On site coring only accepted for penetration NB 50 diameter and under.
1. Sheath Colours for Power Cabling, Patch Leads and Fly leads
(a) The sheath colours of all cables to be used on Site is to comply with the Commonality of Engineering Services; and
(b) As part of the sample submission process, sheath colour is to be nominated by the Subcontractor. For power cables, once a sheath colour is nominated for use, no change in colour will be accepted. 
1. Drilling, Coring and Cutting of Concrete
Drilling, Coring and Cutting of the building structure has the potential to impact both the building structural integrity and cast in services pathways (conduits). In order to ensure this does not occur, the Subcontractor is to work in accordance with the Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Procedure, which involves the use of a Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Permit. 
Following is a summary of the Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Procedure, however the Subcontractor must ensure it is familiar with the full procedure which is located within the Subcontractor HSE Pack. Should the Subcontractor fail to work in accordance with the Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Procedure, and this results in damage to conduits or cables, the Subcontractor will be back charged for the costs incurred in identifying and rectifying the damage. 
Should the Subcontractor fail to follow the process summarised at 3.10.1 below prior to the energisation of Buildings, they will be required to follow the process summarised at 3.10.2 for all Buildings at both stages.
3.10.1 Prior to Energization of Buildings	Comment by reviewer: reviewer is putting together a procedure for this. We will get it over asap so, it can be referenced.	Comment by reviewer: This will be in the HSE Pack	Comment by reviewer: Okay will leave this in here as a reference to the full procedure
Prior to the energisation of a Building, the following process applies to Drilling, Coring and Cutting within that Building;
(a) Task Risk Assessments (TRAs) are to be updated and require the use of a concrete scanning device that has the ability to detect cast in conduits, such as a proprietary concrete scanning detection device;
(b) Drilling, coring and cutting can occur once the area to be penetrated is scanned and deemed free of cast in conduits;
(c) The Subcontractor must nominate a responsible competent person to manage the task, that is trained in the use of the scanning device;
(d) the builder are to clearly delineate temporary “Live” cast in-situ services, TRAs are to consider cast in services and deal with the delineated zones. These zones are “exclusion zones” for penetrations. Prior to any drilling, coring and cutting in an exclusion zone, the Subcontractor must complete the current Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Permit and gain approval from the builder; and
(e) the builder will ensure that cast in temporary services are only present in in-ground slabs, all other temporary electrical services will be surface mounted and highlighted via the use of temporary electrical tagging i.e yellow tape.
3.10.2 Post Energization of Buildings
Upon energisation of a Building, the following process applies to that Building;
(a) the builder will communicate to all subcontractors when a building is about to be energised. This will typically align with commissioning of the Building, i.e once most penetrations have occurred;
(b) the builder will advertise the energized state of a building at each main entry point to the building and via regular updates at pre-start meetings and project notice boards; and
(c) The Subcontractor must complete the Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Permit for all penetrations.
TRADE SPECIFIC
The following is an overview of items that are expected to be supplied by the Subcontractor, in accordance with the Subcontract Documents. This is in no way intended to be an exhaustive list.
The Scope of Works includes but is not limited to the design finalisation, supply, and installation to facilitate the complete Electrical and Communications installation as shown on the Drawings and Specification. Items include but are not limited to the following:
(a) Inground Conduits and Pits for Electrical, Communications & Security services;
(b) High Voltage and Low Voltage Cable Reticulation;
(c) High Voltage System;
(d) Generator System;
(e) Low Voltage Services;
(f) Power to Rangehoods;
(g) Specialised Plant and Equipment;
(h) Communication Services;
(i) Centralised Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS);
(j) Sewer Pumping Stations;
(k) Water Management System;
(l) Waste Water Treatment Plant;
(m) General;
(n) Value Engineering;
(o) Temporary Electrical Site Services; 
(p) Additional Scope;
(i) Existing Potable Water System; 
(ii) Recyclable Water Pumps; and
(q) Interface with Other Trades. 
1.13 In ground Conduits and Pits for Electrical, Communications & Security services
(a) All in-ground conduits and pits referred to includes electrical, communication and security conduits and consists of the following:
(i) Infrastructure conduits and pits;
(ii) Conduits and pits from the infrastructure pits to building slabs and equipment;
(iii) Interlinking building conduits and pits;
(iv) Supplementary in ground conduits for external lighting, power (e.g. pumps, gates), powered security devices, CCTV cameras and communications; 
(v) In ground conduits within duct banks nominated for dedicated for use by Fire protection subcontractor (for fire optic and copper fire cabling).  Note that these conduits will rise in SERs and Fire protection subcontractor to extend cables to FIP/ DGP in associated building; and
(vi) Pit Markers;
(b) Where underground conduit enters building slabs, the use of a slip joint or similar are required;
(c) Where in ground connections are to be connected to above ground services, they shall rise up at their exact location and be capped off ready for above ground connection at a later stage;
(d) Pit drainage; and
(e) Pit Security – Refer to 3.5 Pits and Pit Lid Security.
1.14 High Voltage and Low Voltage Cable Reticulation
(a) All high voltage cabling (external and internal), including interfacing into the existing underground network;
(b) All low voltage cabling (external and internal);
(c) All extra low voltage cabling (external and internal);
(d) Terminations and testing of all cables;
(e) Prior to the cables being terminated all cables are to be sealed using weatherproof shroud to prevent any water ingress;
(f) All cables are to be installed as per the manufacturer’s installation procedures;
(g) All cables are to be delivered to site on approved cable drums that are designed to accommodate the weight of the cables;
(h) All cables are to be protected during and after installation; and
(i) All cables are to be delivered to site in their entire length, where this is not possible the Subcontractor is to identify the that cannot be provided in the entire length along with an approved cable jointing methodology that is approved prior to the commencement of the cable installation. Where joints are required, they must be in an enclosed accessible area. e.g. Cable pit. Cable joints must be waterproof and installed such a way as the joints are not laying on the bottom of the trench and they are protected and supported from damage and unnecessary strain/pressure. 
1.15 High Voltage System 
(a) All transformers complete with protection devices, marshalling panels and associated works;
(b) Ring Main Units (RMU’s);
(c) Additional steel supports, and culvert
(d)  covers over culverts;
(e) Additional steel supports and timber cleats to support the HV cabling where required; 
(f) While the existing HV switchboard in the existing facility has been designed to accommodate the new facility, prior to the commencement of the works the Subcontractor is to carry out a review and audit on the existing HV switchboard and carry out any modifications required to the HV main switchboard, including adjustment to the existing protection devices and additional protection modules;
(g) The existing facility has two high voltage feeders suppling the facility, however the switching between HV feeders is a manual process, the Subcontractor is to liaise with Supply Authority and coordinate the switching process and provide any supporting documentation and payment of any fees that may required;
(h) Interfacing of the new HV cabling for the Project into the existing HV infrastructure;
(i) High voltage earthing system;
(j) If required, the Subcontractor is to provide a standby generator/s during the cutover works, including 24/7 coverage while the buildings are isolated from the network. Including all fuel and temporary cabling cost;	Comment by reviewer: check
(k) Provision of and additional design, control panels, cabling required to complete the works; 
(l) Third party audit of the high voltage system and
(m) Note:  The Electrical consultant is responsible for the design concept and discussions with the electricity distributor with respect to the required Technical Assessment of the proposed non-export embedded generating system formal agreement.  The Subcontractor is required to provide all reports as listed in the consultant's Specification to prove compliance with the consultant's design intent, given actual site ground conditions, equipment offered any special electricity distributor conditions imposed; and
(n) Works associated with protection studies on the HV system.
1.16 Generator System
(a) 11kV containerised generator with integrated day tank;
(b) Provision of a new Air Circuit Breaker (ACB) in the existing generator main switch board location SW-G3;
(c) Provision of a new generator control panel, including control system and interfacing into the existing master control system; 
(d) Modifications and integration into existing generator master control system, including additional modules, software, hardware and graphic etc. Note the existing master control system is maintained by Automation IT;
(e) Exhaust system, Fuel Day tank, battery charger system etc;
(f) Interfacing and modifications to the existing fuel system;
(g) Liaise with Supply Authority;
(h) Payment of all fee and charges by the Supply Authority;
(i) High voltage earthing system;
(j) Interfacing into the BMS system;
(k) Levelling of the generator;
(l) Standby generator/s will be required during the cutover works. The Subcontractor is to include 24/7 coverage while the permanent generator standby system is isolated from the network. This requirement will apply to all stages of the Project;
(m) The Subcontractor will be responsible for the testing and commissioning of the Site wide generator system inclusive of the existing and new generator system. This will require validation testing at all stages utilising capacitance along with resistive load banks to the full load of the generator system;
(n) On completion of all testing and commissioning the Subcontractor is responsible for payment of all cost associated with the fuel, for both the temporary generator and the existing in ground fuel storage tank;
(o) The Subcontractor is to confirm and install the complete installation taking into consideration sizing, weights, vibration, ventilation, acoustic, exhaust silencers, insulation etc;
(p) Provision of additional design, control panels, cabling required to complete the works; and
(q) During all testing, commissioning and client witness testing the control system engineer/s are to be in attendance.	Comment by reviewer: ALL? 
1.17 Low Voltage Services
(a) Main Switch Boards (MSB);
(b) Additional structural support over culverts to support the MSB;
(c) Steelwork and timber covers over culverts;
(d) Low Voltage earthing system;
(e) Compliance with cardiac and body protected area;
(f) Distribution Boards (DBs), including Essential, Non-Essential and UPS;
(g) Protection devices;
(h) Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS);
(i) Power Factor and Harmonic Correction Units (PFCs);
(j) Surge protection devices;
(k) Protection relays (Including Current Transformers (CTs) and Voltage Transformers (VTs));
(l) Consumer mains, submains, and final sub-circuits;
(m) Energy Meter System (EMS) and associated cabling; 
(n) Energy meters and associated cabling;
(o) Connection to the hydraulic water and gas meters installed by others, provide cable paths and cabling between the EMS and the hydraulic meters. Refer to Hydraulic Drawings for water and gas meter locations;
(p) Low voltage power supplies and associated cabling;
(q) Extra low voltage power supplied and associated cabling;
(r) Cast in precast conduits and back boxes, all services.;
(s) Electrical backboxes in any precast or block walls must have tags to ensure that they are properly secured;
(t) Lightning protection, inclusive of buildings, poles, perimeter etc;
(u) All internal light fittings and associated cabling and supports; 
(v) Perimeter lighting, external lighting, glare shields and light poles, including associated cabling, rag bolt assemblies, and engineered footings;
(w) Lighting Control System (LCS), including the ability to provide fitting status via Dali feedback, including all software, programming, servers and interface to the BMS and Security Management System (SMS) etc;
(x) A monitored emergency lighting system;
(y) General Purpose Outlets (GPOs) and associated cabling;
(z) All GPO and switches (etc.) in all prisoner areas are to be engraved identifying the source, CB and GPO number. All other areas will be identified with id in the viewing panel on the GPO and switch 	Comment by reviewer: Circuit Breaker?
(aa) Power to the gas shutoff valves in the kitchen and laundry;
(ab) Low voltage earthing;
(ac) Low voltage earth grids; 
(ad) Bunded upstands for waterproofing;
(i) 30 x 30 x 1.6mm cold formed zinc anneal steel angle around penetration;
(ii) Bed angle to floor slab in sealant;
(iii) Drill and bolt angle to floor with 6mm diameter expanding masonry anchors at 900mm max centres;
(iv) Cove to angle upstands with sealant; and
(v) Floor sealant specialist subcontractor will then seal floor;
(ae) Exposed pipework/conduit in prisoner accessible areas will not be permitted but if formally accepted, are to be provided with metal shrouds (minimum 3mm sheet metal) to eliminate any contraband being hidden/stored or reduced the potential for a ligature point. The Subcontractor is to submit a workshop drawing of their proposal for the builder approval;
(af) Provision of penetrations in all floor slabs above ground level. All suspended poured in-situ slabs will be bond deck construction. The Subcontractor is to include for all works associated to the installation of their respective equipment, conduits, pipes etc;
(ag) All secondary framework and supports required for the works including but not limited to uni-struts, suspension/booker rods, brackets, trims, backings, supports, plinths and frames for reinforcement and the like;
(ah) Provision of the correct IP rating and finish for equipment exposed to weather or areas subject to adverse conditions;
(ai) All circuit breakers are to be of the same make;
(aj) A colour scheme to differentiate between essential/ critical, non-essential, and UPS is to be provided for all switchboards, distribution boards, UPS boards and control panels in accordance with the Commonality of Engineering Services document;
(ak) Floor boxes and socket outlets;
(al) Provision of final connections between isolators and outlets for, but not limited to roller door isolators, FFE equipment, kitchen/laundry equipment outlet/isolators, turnstiles, boom gates, kiosks, communication racks and the like;
(am) Power and lighting to individual bedrooms/ cells will be controlled from the officer’s post;
(an) High Level Interface (HLI) gateways for proprietary electrical equipment where required to interface with the BMS;
(ao) Provision of future proofing conduits for electrical in the Residential Units (RE & TR) Secure Cells (SE & TH); 
(ap) Provide all terminations to other subcontractor’s switchboards and control panels;
(aq) Provide a captive plug on all equipment that plus into a captive outlet;
(ar) Works associated with protection studies on the LV system;
(as) Allow for the specified range of light switches and GPO;
(at) There will be no soft wiring for power circuits;
(au) Where nominated in the scope of works and drawings the Subcontractor is to allow to complete a survey of the EMS shield requirements and providing EMS shield to align with the results of the survey. This is to be agreed and signed off by the consultant before commencement of the works. Any additional requirements by the consultant are to be provided by the Subcontractor; and
(av) The Subcontractor is to make an assessment on whether the earth stakes are to be driven or drilled based on the Geotechnical Report.
1.18 Power to Rangehoods 
There is a requirement for rangehoods to be installed over cooktops, the following outlines the switching requirements for this equipment. 
(a) Once the isolator controlling the cooktop is switched on it will also provide power to a GPO or isolator that the rangehood fan is connected to by the electrical subcontractor, in turn will start the fan. Note once the cooktop isolator is switched on the rangehood light and fan will start automatically.
(b) Power to the Isolators cooktop isolator will  be controlled by the officer’s post;
(c) The rangehood will be supplied and installed by mechanical;
(d) The Subcontractor will install the free issued cooktop;	Comment by reviewer: Isn’t best the joiner installs the cooktop and the sparky does the connection?	Comment by reviewer: reviewer has confirmed he wants electrical to do it so as to not involve a third trade (joiner cuts out hole in factory)
(e) The Subcontractor will provide sufficient signage to that outlines the functionality of the circuitry; and
(f) The Subcontractor will provide all wiring and GPOs/ Isolators to meet the operational requirements.
1.19 Specialised Plant and Equipment
(a) Compliance with Hazardous zone compliance required for flammable store and chemical store;
(b) All requirements associated with Body and Cardiac protected areas;
(c) Provision of power for the “Rising Step” control panel located in Sally Port;
(d) Provision of medical gas panels and associated power and protection devices;
(e) Provide of power to BBQs; and
(f) Provision of power and the installation of free issued Hand Dryers.
1.20 Communication Systems
(a) Provide a total end to end certified cabling solution across the precinct. The Subcontractor is to nominate three cabling vendors in their submission where the builder can select one of the vendors without impact on the price;
(b) Fibre optic cabling consisting of the following:
(i) Engineering Services Network (ESN);
(ii) Public Safety Networks (PSN); 
(iii) Prisoner Network (PN); 
(iv) Security Network; and
(v) Secure Communication Network (SCN);
(c) Structured cabling system consisting of the following:
(i) Engineering Services Network (ESN);
(ii) Public Safety Networks (PSN);
(iii) Prisoner Network (PN);
(iv) Internet Protocol Television (IPTV) Network; 
(v) Video conferencing Network (VCN); and
(vi) Secure Communication Network (SCN);
(d) The attachment "Structured Cabling associated Security Drawing" defines and clarifies  the  Subcontractor’s structured cabling responsibility for the security works;
(e) Audio-visual/legal video conferencing cabling and associated equipment;
(f) IPTV headend and associated equipment;
(g) ESN active equipment including all software, programming and associated works;
(h) Separate Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN) for each of the individual subsystems on the Engineering Services Network;
(i) Data outlets;
(j) Wall boxes (wall boxes to meet the application);
(k) Fibre Optic Break Out Trays (FOBOTs) and patch panels;
(l) All fibre cores are to be terminated;
(m) Communications, ICT and Security racks;
(n) Numbering and Labelling of all devices, cables, patch leads, equipment, racks, patch panels etc; 
(o) Communications earthing;
(p) Surge protection devices;
(q) All cable management systems to the final device/s;
(r) Installation of all TV’s/Monitors and TV brackets (free issued) connect power cables and communications fly leads;
(s) Interface works for the Water Management System refer to section 4.13 for details;
(t) BMS interfacing to the following systems, including but not limited to:
(i) Sewer Pumping stations;
(ii) Waste Water Treatment Plant (WWTP);
(iii) Water Management systems (WMS);
(iv) Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS);
(v) Generator System; and
(vi) Rising step control panel located in the Sally Port;
(u) Copper patch leads and fly leads;
(v) Fibre patch leads;
(w) Colour coding of cables to identify the services including the associated patch leads;
(x) Future proofing conduits for security in the Secure Accommodation Accessible;
(y) Allow for the fibre and UTP cabling ties between all racks;
Allow for all ancillary equipment as outlined in the Communication Specification including but not limited to the following:
(i) Racks;
(ii) Slide panels;
(iii) Doors and locks 	Comment by reviewer: Doors added 	Comment by reviewer: and locks 
(iv) Cable supports;
(v) Power Boards and captive plug tops;
(vi) Fan trays;
(vii) Cable management;
(viii) Cage nuts;
(ix) Shelfing; Fixed and Sliding (As required)
(x) Earth bars;
(xi) FOBOTS; and
(xii) RJ45 panels;
(z) Provision of new Fibre Optic cabling and associated works for the communication requirements related to X3 to Waste Water Treatment Plant;
(aa) Allow for all copper and fibre results to be verified by a third-party Nata Type A Inspection Body; and
(ab) Refer to Appendix C for the demarcation schedule between Electrical/Comms-ICT-Security.
1.21 Centralised UPS
(a) All UPS units (including the rack mounted UPS units) as detailed;
(b) External by-pass switch(es), batteries, racks, connections, testing, cranage and the like;
(c) UPS power reticulation including sub-mains and associated UPS cabling; and
(d) High Level Interface (HLI) & Low Level Interface (LLI) to BMS, including software and hardware to allow the BMS to access data from the UPS.
1.22 Sewer Pumping Stations
(a) Electrical and Communications conduits and pits to each of the sewer pumping stations, including excavation, backfilling, compaction, marker tape and cable markers (as detailed in 4.1); and
(b) Provide submain and terminate into the sewer pumping control panel.
1.23 Water Management System
(a) The Water Management System (WMS) will run over the ESN as defined in the demarcation schedule;
(b) Provide and confirm connectivity between the each of the building WMS line drivers (ESN interface point) and the Water Management System. Note the WMS Line Driver will be located in the ESN rack in each building; and
(c) All equipment cabling and associated devices for the WMS will be supplied and installed by others.
1.24 Waste Water Treatment Plant (WWTP)
Refer to consultant drawings drawing ____ and 500 for scope; 
Connect submains to the WWTP MSB (MSB by others);
Provide a 3-phase circuit breaker in the UPS DB located adjacent to the MSB located in X8;
Provide a surge protection device in the existing UPS DB;
Provide a UPS DB in the WWTP;
Provide a in ground power supply from the UPS DB to the WWTP;
Provide all excavation/backfilling compaction, boring, warning tape pit markers, conduits, pits and drainage (as detailed in 4.1);
Replace CFS units X12 and X11 to 160-amps and 100-amps CFS units respectively in the Main Switch Board located in X8;
Provide a 80amp 3 phase submain from the WWTP MSB to a General Power and Lighting distribution board;
Provide a new general power and lighting distribution board at the WWTP;
Provide streetlight the external services road, including engineering footing poles and rag bolt assembly and foundations;
Provide inground conduits and associated cabling from General Power and Lighting distribution board;
Lighting control of the street lighting will be via the existing Lighting Control System serving the existing facility;
Provide general, emergency and exit lighting to the WWTP building/s and associated cabling.  Emergency and exit lighting to be compatible with and connected to the existing facility Emergency Lighting Monitoring system.; and
Provide general purpose single and three phase power to the WWTP building/s.
1.25 Prototype Cell
The Subcontractor has made sufficient allowances to assist with the fit out of a prototype cell and prototype officers post that demonstrates in respect of a typical double cell the construction methods, materials, finishes, fittings and attachment methods for electrical and communications layout;
This prototype cell will be inspected and tested by the Principal’s audit consultants and the client representatives in respect of the aforementioned cell attributes to confirm conformity to the quality requirements inclusive of;
Safety and security;
Contraband concealment risk; and
Strength of attachments for furniture and fittings and resilience to attack;
All aspects of the prototype cell must be approved and accepted by both the client and the Principal prior to the Subcontractor proceeding with the completion of all other cells on the Project
1.26 General
Provision of infill panels over culvert including structural supports;
In all areas accessible to in-mates, fixtures, fittings and covers are to be installed with anti-tamper screws of a type as nominated by the builder.  There will be commonality of anti-tamper fixings on site; 	Comment by reviewer: reviewer, in other scopes we are the Main Contractor but here we are simply the builder. What is the cotrrect term and the comm team need this to be uniform.	Comment by reviewer: reviewer, both terms are correct, they are both defined in the AS2545 and are interchangeable. We added the builder as a term to cover ALL the builder documents.	Comment by reviewer: Great, thank you
Provision of all cable containment (tray, ladders, baskets, duct, catenaries etc.) as applicable for electrical and communications cabling as detailed on the Drawings  and Specification or as required;
Ensure segregation of electrical, communications, security and all other services is achieved and maintained;
Keying in accordance with the common keying requirements;
The builder have developed a General Cutover and Recovery Management Plan for any possible disruptions to the operations of the existing facility. As part of this plan (which is in operation for works currently occurring on site), potential disruptions are notified to the Client via a Disruption Notice. The Subcontractor will be responsible for the preparation of the disruption notice (DN) prior to connection/ interfacing to the existing network/ facility. The DN is to be finalised and approved by the Principal four weeks prior to the event. The Subcontractor is to allow for all Works related to the preparation of the SIO, including traffic guidance schemes and traffic control, as required;	Comment by reviewer: Please note including traffic guidance schemes and traffic control, as required.
The Subcontractor is responsible for the discrimination study and protection grade settings, including allowance for modification to circuit breakers frame size/ trip units to achieve full selectivity both upstream and downstream to the full prospective fault level at the circuit breakers;
The Subcontractor is responsible for all electrical isolation and the procedures outlined in this Scope of Works, the builder GMRs and the builder electrical lock out procedures;
The Subcontractor will be responsible for the protection of all their equipment provided under the Subcontract. This includes water, dust and mechanical protection during the construction and completion phases of the Project;
The Subcontractor is to provide all cable ladders shown on the kitchen and laundry drawings as defined by others, the cable ladder is to accommodate all other services i.e. power, water gas, etc; 
The Subcontractor is to allow for power supply to each cool room and freezer room for the lighting within the rooms. The Subcontractor is to connect the power supply into the interface connection box located on each room. The power for each room is to be controlled via the officers post;
The Subcontractor is responsible for the wrapping of their services as detailed on drawing ____ – TYPICAL SERVICES THROUGH SF# AND 1B# DETAIL. The 10PMa mass concrete where the service pass under footing is by others; 
Prior to the installation of data cabling, the Subcontractor shall ensure that the overall length of the data cable does not exceed 90 metres;
The Subcontractor will be responsible for providing all support brackets/ noggins etc. required for the mounting of their equipment. Equipment mounted on plaster board/ light weight ceilings and walls are not to rely on the finished wall type for securing their equipment, all Subcontractor equipment must be independently supported unless an alternative solution is approved by the builder. Note the light fittings support (noggins) in custodial area are to be metal are to be secured so that the light fitting cannot be pulled from the structure; 
Allow for rack sizes of 1000mm x 800mmm unless the size  nominated on drawings differ; 
All light fitting and high level electrical and communications equipment in the Sports Halls are to have wire guard protection and cable ladders are to have lids; 
All conduits must be full concealed; and
The Subcontractor  must ensure that the cable installation matches the design installation derating factors. It is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to identify and address any deviations that arise.
1.27 Value Engineering
The Subcontractor is to provide a comprehensive list of value engineering (VE) options with their tender submission;
The VE items will be presented below the line and not part of their tender submission; and
The VE will be presented as a detailed description of the proposed VE item and the saving to undertake all works (design, documentation, modelling, supply, installation, commissioning etc) associated with the proposed VE item. 
1.28 Temporary Electrical site services
The temporary electrical services is a design and construct package and is to include all works associated with completing the Project requirements. The following provide an overview of the Project requirements and the Subcontractor is to provide any additional equipment and labour to meet the design intent; 
(a) The only transformers that form part of the main works are transformers 1,3,4,5 and 6. These are the only transformers that are required a low voltage to be extended for this Scope of Works, the LV requirements for the other transformers have been completed by other contractors;
(b) The purpose of the transformer locations is to provide temporary power across the construction site, it is the Subcontractor’s responsibility to understand the load requirements of the areas and ensure that the load is distributed across evenly and do not exceed the load of the respective transformer’s capacities (including spare capacity for additional requirements);
(c) Provide underground conduits/ pits between the wildlife and the final location of the temporary Main Distribution Board (MDB). Note that one off 150mm conduit will be located two meters inside the wildlife fence by others and will need to be extended to the 150mm conduit that was installed during the construction of the Common Services Trench (CST), the conduit was installed across the CST to prevent digging up the area to eliminate the CST services from being damaged. The Subcontractor is to locate these conduits and connect them and extend them to their final temporary area MDB location; 
(d) Note with the exception of TX 6, this TX is located inside the wildlife fence, when the Subcontractor will extend from the pole location to the final area MDB location;
(e) All excavation, backfilling and compaction works, including surveying of the area prior to commencing any excavation works provision of visual identification markers “Caution Live Power”, “DO NOT DIG”, “Phone XXXXXXXX Prior To Commencement of the Works”. The conduits will be installed/ located so that they do not have any impact on the permanent works;
(f) Provide a 3-phase + N+E submain from the TX meter panel main circuit breaker to the zone Main Distribution Boards, The submain is to be rated at the full current rating of the circuit breaker + 15% spare capacity;
(g) Provide a temporary zone Main Distribution Board at each location. The final location of the temporary MDB is to be coordinated with a builder representative so that the MDB is located in a position so as not to interfere with the construction works being undertaken or in a position that will require the MDB to be relocated during the construction phase; 
(h) Provide metering either at the metering panel at the base of the HV pole or at the individual zone Main Switchboards, the meters are to be capable for being read remotely e.g via an app;
(i) Provide a 3-phase circuit breaker in the MDB No1 located at the Subcontractor’s compound No1 (MDB by others). From the MDB No1 CB provide a power supply to a temporary MDB in the Chiller Plantroom Building (CP), along with 4 off temporary distribution boards, 20 off temporary IP65 LED emergency light fittings, 4 emergency IP65 exit lights and power including power to three off water bubblers. Note there is no drawing associated with this works, the Subcontractor is to provide temporary electrical services in accordance with Australian Standards; 
(j) All MDB are to be metered for power consumption;
(k) All MDB are to be weatherproof minimum IP65 rated complete with a rain canopy; 
(l) All MDB are to be located in an undercover free open area;
(m) The MDBs not located within a weatherproof area will need to be mounted on a frame that in fixed to a concrete slab;
(n) All temporary boards are to be proprietary or equal;
(o) All temporary distribution boards are to include a minimum of 10 off 10-amp single phase 10amp, 2 off 15-amp GPOs and 2 off 3phase 32-amp 5 pin GPOs. All boards are to complete with the current AS and come complete with the appropriate protection devices; 
(p) The temporary power boards are to be wired so that a board can be removed without losing power to the other boards or having to rewire the temporary power boards; 
(q) The Subcontractor is to provide workshop drawings for the temporary power boards and DBs for the builder approval. The builder can change the configuration nominated without incurring any additional cost;
(r) All temporary cabling is to be bottom entry into the MDB;
(s) The temporary building DBs will be cabled so that the boards can be relocated without loss of power to the other DB in the building;
(t) Allow for the relocation of the DB in each of the buildings a minimum of five times;
(u) Allow for all repairs and replacement parts for the extent of the Project;
(v) All MDBs are to have a minimum 15% spare capacity;
(w) All temporary electrical works must be completed by licenced electricians;
(x) Provision of 25 extension lead support poles per building;
(y) Provide all circuit breakers and subcircuits required to complete the Works;
(z) All external lighting shall comply with the Australian Standards, the lights are to be controlled by PE Cell;
(aa) All temporary lights are to be LED and IP56 high impact rated;
(ab) The temporary lights are to be wired so that a light can be removed without losing power to the other lights or having to rewire the lighting circuits;
(ac) All cable management required to complete the works;
(ad) 40 off pole mounted LED solar powered relocatable flood lights on 5 mt poles, with adjustable glare shields. The final location will be agreed on site with the builder; 
(ae) 20 off 240v temporary pole mounted flood lights (PE Cell Controlled and glare shields);
(af) Temporary power to each of the buildings along with power boards as detailed on the drawings;
(ag) Temporary lighting in each of the building in accordance with Australian Standards, all lights are to be emergency fittings; 
(ah) Emergency exit lighting is all buildings in accordance with Australian Standards;
(ai) Power for additional temporary hydraulic equipment. Refer to appendix C for details; 
(aj) Power to the water bubblers as detailed on the Drawings;
(ak) Temporary power to Site Compounds 3, 4 and 5; 
(al) Temporary lighting and power to Site Compounds 3, 4 and 5; 
(am) Temporary power and communication services to the existing visitor processing temporary facilities;
(an) Lighting to the covered walkways for Compounds 3, 4 and 5;
(i) All temporary power and lighting is to be in accordance with Australian Standards; and
(ii) Provide all cable management as required;
(ao) A proprietary or equal, Standalone Wireless Safety System, consisting of the following:
(i) Fully wireless;
(ii) Battery powered call points;
(iii) Modular system;
(iv) Custom programming to suit the Project requirements;
(v) Modular system built up into three systems in one;
i. Evacuation;
ii. First Aid Nurse Call; 
(vi) Radio mesh network; 
(vii) Incident broadcast modules;
(viii) UHF radio voice broadcast module;
(ix) SMS text message module; 
(x) One off CYG64 CYG64 control panel;
(xi) One off AAOv1 radio voice alert system module;
(xii) One off Radio adaptor lead;
(xiii) One off AAMOv2SMS SMS Text sender module; 
(xiv) 30 off CYG5S4 Combined Evacuation/ First Aid Alert Call – First responder station;
(xv) 30 off Checkpoint custom safety trolley fire extinguisher – with item2 mounted to the trolley, signage (nurse call, fire extinguisher and red/white hazardous tape);
(xvi) Large /site aerial kit;
(ap) The Subcontractor will keep an up to date, as built record, of the Works;
(aq) Temporary wiring will be suitably, mechanically protected and signed, according to the environment in which it will be installed, to mitigate damage;
(ar) All approvals and certification required for compliance; 
(as) Prior to carrying out any excavation works the area is to be scanned for and existing in ground services. No work is to commence until the Subcontractor provides an ITP to the builder and it approved and signed off by a builder representative;
(at) The Subcontractor is to include for vacuum digging in areas where existing services have been located;
(au) The Subcontractor is required to provide routine electrical maintenance of the all-site accommodation buildings and temporary infrastructure (including temporary infrastructure previously completed by others).  This scope is to include monthly visual inspections of entire electrical system, replacement of lamps, circuit breakers, protection devices, fuses, emergency lighting test and repairs etc;
(av) Testing, tagging, and recording of all the builder equipment including all electrical appliances and equipment within site sheds (including areas completed on previous stages). The testing and tagging will commence ____ and end upon Practical Completion;
(aw) Monthly RCD testing and recording of temporary DB and switchboards including all site sheds, (including areas completed on previous stages), testing will commence ____ and end upon Practical Completion;
(ax) Six monthly testing and recording of all temporary emergency lighting across the project including all site compound areas (including areas completed on previous stages) in accordance with applicable codes and standards from ____ until Practical Completion;
(ay) Provide a design and construction program of the works with Tender submission;
(az) Removal of all the temporary high and low voltage and high voltage electrical, communication and security services and remove all equipment from the site;
(ba) Provision of six off CCTV cameras around the perimeter of the site and interface the cameras into the existing the builder system;
(bb) Provide of four off  additional CCTV cameras to monitor the subcontractors carpark and interface the cameras into the existing the builder system;
(bc) Provide an additional 25 off temporary 3 phase power boards along with 30mts 4mm 4+E orange circular, including circuit breaker terminated and testing;
(bd) Provide an additional 60 off IP65 LED emergency light fittings complete with 15 mts 2.5mm 2+ E orange circular, terminated and testing;
(be) The Subcontractor will keep an up to date, as built record, of the Works;
(bf) The Subcontractor is to include for all rectification works during construction;
(bg) Temporary wiring will be suitably mechanically protected and signed, according to the environment in which it will be installed, to mitigate damage;
(bh) Provision of power to temporary fans and air conditioning units to the buildings during construction phase (temporary fans and A/C by mechanical trade);
(bi) The Subcontractor is to allow for trimming of the trees along the HV aerial route during the construction phase;
(bj) Removal of the temporary 11kV temporary overhead arial network, including removal of poles, transformers, drop slack span between 4 and 5 (intake substation end) and disconnect from Ring Main Unit (RMU) and liaising with the electricity distributor including any fees or chargers; 
(bk) Carryout all maintenance, testing and tagging, RCD testing on all the existing temporary electrical works completed previously; and
(bl) Compliance with Project ESD (ISCA) requirements  and submission of monthly reporting of ESD requirements/compliance.  This involves a monthly manual reading of each site usage kWh meter.  Submission to the builder is to accompany monthly progress claim and is to be in the form of a spreadsheet, updated monthly, complete with a photo of each meter showing kWh reading.	Comment by reviewer: This is in interface matrix	Comment by reviewer: 
1.29 Additional Scope
(a) Provide a conduit path and a Cat 6A cable from the satellite located on the rooftop of the Gate House building to the Gate House SER and terminate the cable at both ends. Provide surge protection and an IP65 enclosure for the roof top data outlet, and terminate the data cable on the ESN rack; 
(b) Provide a 24 Core SMOF from Gatehouse to Administration Building, FOBOT and terminate the fibre at both end including F/O patch leads . The FOBOT will be located in one of the racks currently documented; and	Comment by reviewer: F/O patched leads added
(c) The existing pump/motor on X11 (northern dam) is to be upgrade from a 4kW to 6kW. Provide a new power supply from the existing control panel to the pump location which is located five metres from the control panel. Replace the existing circuit breaker to accommodate upgraded power supply;
(d) Provide an additional four off 40amp phase +N+E 32amp IP 56 captive outlet on the mezzanine level of the baggage conveyor system in the prisoner processing area and change the 32 amp GPO detailed in the previous clarification schedule to 40amp;
(e) Provide a 3 phase N+E 30 amp power supply from all Building SER UPS DB to the individual Building MSSB. Provide circuit breaker and terminate cable both ends;
(f) Provide a 3 phase N+E 40amp power supply from Gate House UPS DB to the Gate House MSSB. Provide circuit breaker and terminate cable both ends. Note a UPS power supply is required for all MSSB in the Gate House;
(g) Provide a 3 phase N+E 80amp power supply from DB-X21-UPS to MSSB-X21-UPS. Provide circuit breaker and terminate cable both ends;
(h) Provision of a UPS power supply to the gas shut off valves in the kitchen and laundry;
(i) Provide two off 25mm conduits between the dental chair and the RCDs located in the dental room;
(j) Provide an emergency light directly above FIP in building MU;
(k) Provide an allowance for an additional three emergency exit lights per wing  in the ceiling plantroom walkways above the custodial building; 
(l) The outlets, and power and data switches located above the desk in the officers post are to be mounted on skirting duct. The skirting duct will need to be 3 channel and the cable from the ceiling is to maintain segregation along the entire installation. Note that some outlets will have power packs the Subcontractor is to co-ordinate the works so that they can be plugged into the designated outlet; and
(m) Allowance for the scope gap items listed in Annexure F, at nil cost.
1.30 Additional Scope – Variation Price Options
The Subcontractor shall allow for the following items not detailed on the Subcontract Documents at the time of tender issue as Variation Price Options;
(a) Existing Potable Water System; 
(i) The existing potable water pumps are to be replaced with three off 18.5kW pumps;
(ii) Provide submain from X3 Main Switch Board to the potable water control panel;
(iii) Terminate the cable at X3 main switch board;
(iv) Provide a new Combined Fuse Switch (CFS) unit in the existing X3 MSB to accommodate the new potable water pumps;	Comment by reviewer: define
(v) Terminate submain at control panel; and
(vi) Once new pumps are to be installed and commissioned the submains to the existing pumps are to be disconnected and removed.
(b) Recyclable Water Pumps; 
(i) The existing recyclable water pumps are to be supplemented with two off 37.5kW pumps;
(ii) Provide new submain to the recyclable water control panel. Note the submain will need to accommodate the two existing pumps and the two new pumps;
(iii) Terminate the cable at X3 main switch board;
(iv) Provide a new CFS unit in the existing X3 MSB to accommodate the new recyclable water pump;
(v) Terminate submain at control panel;
(vi) Make safe the existing control panel; and
(vii) Disconnect and remove the existing submain;
(c) Vending Machine Outlets; 
(i) Provide a dual data outlet at 27 vending machines located in non-custodial areas. The data outlet is to be enclosed in a weatherproof enclosure with a clear cover that can be accessed by lifting the lid; and
(ii) The vending machine GPOs are to be IP56 rated and the power leads from the vending machine need to be replaced with a captive plug top.
1.31 Interface with Other Trades
Refer to Appendix C for trades interface matrix.
1.32 Exclusions
For the avoidance of doubt, only those items listed hereunder are excluded form this Subcontract Agreement. Any other aspect required to provide a fully functioning system as per the documentation is included in the Subcontract; 
(a) Pit and conduits within the common services trench for inter building cabling;
(b) Interstate and overseas travel costs for the builder, the Electrical Consultant and Principal to attend Factory Acceptance Testing (FAT);
(c) SCN cabling to the CCTV camera poles; 
(d) SCN Cable trays to the covered walkways.with the exception of mechanical protection from the cable pathway in the walkway support structure to the device and any penetrations required; and
(e) There is no allowance by the Subcontractor for the provision of vacuum excavation around live services, deemed to be existing services, within the boundary of the Site construction fence. In the event that vacuum excavation is required around live services deemed to be existing services, then this is considered a variation to the Subcontractor's Works. In this instance, the Subcontractor should exhaust all efforts to locate inground services through potholing in the first instance and only use vacuum excavation as a last resort.
COMPLETION REQUIREMENTS
Comply with the requirements of the Commissioning and Handover Management Plan. The Commissioning and Handover Management Plan includes the process and Subcontract requirements for Testing, Commissioning, Handover and Defects plus some details regarding how the processes are to be implemented.  Further requirements for commissioning and handover are detailed below.  
1.33 Witnessing of Testing and Commissioning Activities
5.1.1	Levels for Testing and Commissioning
There are four levels for testing and commissioning (which are reflected in the Construction Programme);
(a) Infrastructure – This is all works external to individual new buildings to be constructed as part of this Project. Infrastructure to support buildings must be in place and operational before any Building can be successfully tested and commissioned;
(b) Building – Each building is to be tested in isolation. Testing is to also prove successful interconnection into infrastructure including BMS, chilled water, fire panel, water supply, power supply, communications interconnectivity, security systems interconnectivity. It is also to verify load shedding operations via simulated ESN signals. Water Management System operates as per design. (Existing) fire pump operates when required;
(c) Neighbourhood – when all buildings forming part of a neighbourhood have been individually tested and commissioned, the operation of the neighbourhood is to be tested.  There are three main Communications rooms on site – in buildings GH, E1 and E2. Neighbourhoods are generally defined as a group of buildings with a common engineering systems connection. Neighbourhood testing is to prove all testing relating to that group of buildings operates as expected. This will require limited retesting within individual buildings. Examples include but are not limited to; 
(i) Operation of a smoke detector in SE1 indicates correctly in Entry building E2 fire panel;
(ii) Manual operation of the gas purge switch in E2 activates the fans in the associated building;
(iii) Building Management System monitoring and controlling all devices as expected, graphic user interfaces, trending, logging, reporting fully operational as expected;
(iv) Water Management System can be controlled and monitored as per design;
(v) Centralised UPS to be load tested over 4 hours and proven fully operational;  
(vi) Security monitoring/ control in E1 and E2 work as expected; and
(d) Site/ Precinct – This is site wide testing and commissioning and it includes total systems operation such as:
(i) Verification of device (e.g., smoke detector) location;
(ii) Operation of all Communications infrastructure;
(iii) Operation of all Security systems in the Main Control Room (MCR) including all status/ alarm interfaces with other services;
(iv) Operation of generators, including load shedding. Prior to this testing, numerous Engineering Services Network (ESN) load shed simulations with verification of operation of every item of electrical plant during and after a power disruption, including distribution boards, sewer pump stations, fire systems and mechanical plant; 
(v) Operation of all aspects of Water Management System, Energy Metering System, Building Management System and Emergency Lighting System including all Graphic User Interfaces; and
(vi) Site/ precinct testing is to prove all testing relating to the Site operates as expected.  As per the neighbourhood testing, this will require limited retesting within individual buildings to prove functionality.   
5.1.2	Witness Testing Requirements
For each of the above levels of testing, there are witness testing requirements for all elements as follows:
(a) Subcontractor to carry out all testing and commissioning to ensure system integrity and operations are as required.  the builder will be present during this process.  All results are to be formalised and submitted to the builder via the ITP process;
(b) Witness Testing by the builder – If the builder did not fully witness the commissioning testing by the Subcontractor or is not satisfied that this witnessing was sufficient, this Subcontractor is to allow for dedicated witness commissioning testing by the builder. This will generally be random testing verifying the results within the ITPs, but this testing may require a 100% retest for selected tests. For example, fire matrix testing;
(c) Witness Testing by the consultant – The Subcontractor is to allow for dedicated witness commissioning testing by the consultant. This will generally be random testing verifying the results within the ITPs, but this testing may require a 100% retest for selected tests. For example, fire matrix testing;
(d) Witness testing by Statutory Authorities – If there is a Statutory Authority with jurisdiction over the works, the Subcontractor is required to allow for whatever commissioning testing is requested to be witnessed and proven. For all such commissioning testing with the fire authority, the Subcontractor can expect the builder, the consultant, the Principal, the Building Certifier and the Fire Engineer to be invited to attend and be present;
(e) Witness Testing by the Principal and Project Authorities – The Subcontractor is to allow for dedicated witness commissioning testing by the Principal and by Project Authorities. Authorities in this case refers to the Building Certifier and the Fire Engineer. This will generally be random testing verifying the results within the ITPs, but this testing may require a 100% retest for selected tests.  For example, fire matrix testing;
(f) The Subcontractor is to provide a matrix indicating all items to be tested/ commissioned plus is to clearly indicate all the above witness testing types. The builder, in conjunction with the Subcontractor will then add to this list as required and pre-fill witness expectations for the consultant, the Principal and Project Authorities. This listing/ matrix will then be forwarded to the consultant, the Principal and Project Authorities for their consideration and advice regarding requirements. It can be expected that additional tests will be added, especially for integrated systems checks. 
1.34 Completion, Testing & Commissioning
The Subcontractor shall include for the following:
(a) Submit details of the proposed Inspection Test Plans (ITPs), commissioning procedures and methods of measurement.  ITPs, commissioning procedures and measurement methods which are not approved or not in accordance with Project requirements or Specifications will not be accepted as evidence that the systems have been correctly commissioned;
(b) Assist with the development of the Commissioning and Handover Management Plan when requested to by the builder.  Whether or not the Subcontractor has contributed to the plan, the Subcontractor will adhere to the requirements of the Commissioning (as amended from time to time) and as directed by the builder;
(c) Provide a dedicated overall commissioning manager who will develop the commissioning plan and manage the whole commissioning process (review the shop drawings for commission ability, develop the program and commissioning plans, ITPs etc., pre commissioning inspections, through to commissioning of all systems to handover/ practical completion) including managing the Electrical Subcontractor’s commissioning program, all commissioning activities and commissioning resources;
(d) In addition to the overall commissioning manager, for each of the four construction areas, provide a dedicated area commissioning manager, plus testing and commissioning engineers dedicated to each construction group. This means the provision of four separate testing and commissioning teams for this Project;
(e) Develop and submit a Project specific Commissioning and Handover plan detailing the plan for all commissioning, testing and handover activities to verify the Works meet the Project specific requirements and standards. The plan shall be in accordance the builder Defects Commissioning and Handover Plan and all other Subcontract Documentation and applicable Standards. . As part of the plan submission, include all supporting commissioning documentation, including Project specific ITPs, commissioning procedures and methods, commissioning results and test sheets, Inspection and Test Report templates, commissioning program and commissionable systems list.   Commissioning and testing of the Works shall be conducted on a progressive basis and align with the sequencing, staging and handover of the buildings and facilities. Allow for all commissioning and testing Works necessary to enable progressive witnessing and acceptance by the Principal and their representatives, including the retesting of systems where interfacing, connecting or integrating to previous stages;
(f) Submit a commissioning program, itemise all commissioning, testing and handover activities, including hold and witness points for the Works for incorporation into the builder commissioning program.  Indicate on the program the sequencing, pre-requisites and dependencies of activities, the numbers of commissioning staff on Site at any time during the testing and commissioning period and the anticipated duration of the various activities on a system by system basis. Indicate on the program all interface testing including all BMS interfaces, generator testing, operation of Electrical plant, fire matrix testing etc.;	Comment by reviewer: reviewer to confirm if this is to be added to all.	Comment by reviewer: Yes confirmed	Comment by reviewer: Yes leave in
(g) Complete all labelling required by the specification and any relevant project specific requirements.  This includes labelling for pits pipes and valves.  Label samples are to be submitted for the builder's approval;
(h) Allow for all cost associated with one representative from the builder, the Electrical Consultant and Principal (three people) to attend the Factory Acceptance Testing (FAT), Site Acceptance Testing (SAT) and Integrated System Testing (IST) on major plant and equipment to demonstrate the Works to the satisfaction of the builder, the Principal and their representatives. Allowance shall be made to support the progressive staging and handover of the buildings and facilities.  Major plant and equipment are defined as follows:
(i) Generators;
(ii) Main Switch Boards;	Comment by reviewer: The client will pick up on FAT, see what they come back with
(iii) UPS;
(iv) Transformers;
(v) Ring Main Units;
(vi) Distribution Boards;
(vii) UPS Boards;
(viii) Control Panels; and 
(ix) Power Factor Correction;
(i) Prior to Construction Validation Testing, start-up, commission and test all Works in accordance with the approved program using the approved ITPs, commissioning procedures and methods to verify correct operation and function in accordance with the Project requirements including; manufacturer’s requirements, Specification, Standards and the Subcontract;
(j) Undertake all testing, pre-commissioning, commissioning and Mode and Interface Testing and provide documentary evidence of same;
(k) Allow for Site tests, all necessary labour, materials, stores, apparatus and instruments for testing.  Where tests are required to be performed away from the Site, provide everything necessary to carry out the tests;
(l) Ensure that all instruments have been calibrated by an independent certified testing authority within six months of the date of use and a current calibration certificate is available for inspection.  Instruments shall not be used to measure quantities which are outside their accurate measuring range.  If there is reasonable doubt as to the accuracy of an instrument, the instrument shall be re-calibrated or alternatively, quantities measured with the disputed instrument shall be re-measured with another approved instrument;
(m) Operate all systems and equipment to the extent required for final installation, adjust and calibrate controls and instruments and rectify all faults;
(n) Arrange for the setting up of major equipment provided for these Works to be supervised by the manufacturer's representative, who shall remain on Site until the equipment is operating satisfactorily;
(o) Coordinate manufacturer's representatives so that testing is carried out according to the approved comissioning program;
(p) Record all measurements and results using the approved ITPs, commissioning test sheets, Inspection and Test Records. Make any modifications and additions which are necessary to meet the requirements of the Project. When results are satisfactory and in accordance with the Project requirements, submit completed ITPs and commissioning results for review prior to witness testing;
(q) Provide completed quality assurance documentation including but not limited to ITPs and check sheets. Completed ITP’s and check sheets will require to be submitted prior to any Inspections plus uploaded into the O&M manual;
(r) The Subcontractor shall provide operation and maintenance manuals in a format to be prescribed by the builder which are to be provided progressively as soon as reasonably available with final versions not later than Substantial Completion;
(i) Sections of the Manual are to be provided progressively onto internet hosted O&M software such as “proprietary O&M software” or similar;
(ii) Where the Subcontractor has BIM responsibilities, interactive referencing (e.g. identical Asset Numbering) to O&M manuals will also be required for all plant and equipment identified as a maintainable asset within the DEMP and associated Asset Information Register (AIR);
(iii) The maintenance section of the O&M manuals will require all maintenance activities required during DLP to be separately itemised.  A dDraft of this section of the manuals is to be fully completed minimum four months before Substantial Completion, so the builder can review and approve the scope of proposed maintenance activities;
(s) Be responsible for and ensure that any Authority Approvals required in relation to the Works are in place;
(t) Refer to attached Appendix D - Principal’s Requirements For Practical Completion Testing For Correctional Facilities Development At the project.  Ensure suitably proficient trade persons and qualified Supervisor(s) are present on site as applicable for:
(i) The 10 day Audit period;
(ii) The 25 day Working Day Monitoring period; and
(iii) The 5 consecutive day Fault Free period.  Should the fault free period not be deemed acceptable by the Principal, the 5-day fault free period will continue to recommence (re-start the 5 days) until such time as fault free period is deemed acceptable by the Principal.
1.35 Interim Measures to Ensure Integrity of Plant and Systems is Maintained
Once a building has been successfully tested and commissioned, it will be locked and entry restricted.  A log book will be kept at the entry to each building for recording who entered, date, reason and works carried out. 
The Subcontractor’s Commissioning and Handover Management Plan and scope is to include interim measures to ensure integrity of plant and systems between the time a building is tested and commissioned and Practical Completion.  Such items will include:
(a) Installation of covers over all smoke detectors after commissioning and permanent removal just prior to Practical Completion;
(b) Installation of temporary construction filter media in all air handling plant prior to energisation and permanent removal just prior to Practical Completion.  In the interim, filter media is to be cleaned/ replaced as required;
(c) Scope for flushing pans, potable water, cleaning/ replacing filters on ZIPs etc will all be as per the Potable Water Reticulation Management Handbook (which forms part of the Hydraulics subcontract);
(d) Daily inspections of each communications room, UPS room, MSB room, substation to ensure no unauthorised access, rooms are locked, clean and conditions are being maintained;
(e) Maintain all plant and systems as required to ensure that integrity of operation is maintained.  For plant such as the chillers, this will include chiller maintenance as per manufacturer’s recommendations.  For emergency lighting, this will include rectification of any automatic system/ device problem report;
(f) Cleaning: In addition to the building cleaning, the associated services trade will be responsible for the following specialist cleaning with a final clean just before Practical Completion;
(i) Cleaning/ replacing filters as required.  This includes any filters within any switchboard/ panel or hydraulic item;
(ii) Thorough clean inside all main plant including air handling units, electrical switchboards, mechanical switchboards, Fire Panels, Security panels;
(iii) Clean sensors and items within plant and ductwork such as Multi-point Aspirated Smoke Detection (MASD) sampling points;
(iv) Clean inside all racks and is to be responsible for cleaning requirements within all SER rooms/ cupboards.  This scope is to take effect from when the associated SER room/ cupboard is handed over to the Communications Subcontractor for installation of racks to commence; 
(v) All cleaning requirements within high voltage rooms, main switchboard rooms and UPS rooms, once the associated equipment is energised; and
Clean all lights and where required relace lamps and other faulty components prior to the commencement of commissioning and again just before Practical Completion.
1.36 Finalisation, Handover, DLP
The Subcontractor shall include for the following:
(a) Provide all warranties as required by Schedule 1 of the Subcontract and the Specification, and ensure warranties are in favour of the Principal. Note special requirements for items including sealants, structural steelwork, fire rating, switchboards & control panels, pumps, air handlers, supply & ventilation fans, chillers & chilled water systems, piping, underground pipework, cable trays, split system air conditioners and cooling towers;
(b) Thermographic scanning of all switchboards one month prior to Practical Completion and again one month before the end of the Defect Liability Period.  This work is to be completed by a specialist thermographic scanning company and the associated reports are to be provided within one week of testing and uploaded into the O&M manual.  Any anomalies found must be immediately rectified as any high temperature test result will not be accepted. Critical equipment that has to be taken off line and has an impact or disruption to the operating facility will require a temporary back up system before the works can be undertaken, this will be the Subcontractor’s responsibility;	Comment by reviewer: Or substantial?
(c) Engage an appropriately qualified Fire Engineer to certify the fire rating of the Subcontractor’s systems and workmanship throughout the entire Site. All penetrations and corresponding certifications shall be identified on a schedule and drawings and photographed. All fire rated penetrations shall be tagged with a unique number.  Inspect and recertify all items at the end of the Defects Liability Period;	Comment by reviewer: Change to all
(d) Where elements of the Works form part of Essential Services as defined by the relevant Codes or Regulations of Statutory Authorities, then the Subcontractor will provide an Independent Certification and Inspection and Test Report, detailing the system and each component, the date they were inspected, tested and passed as installed and functioning in their correct and intended mode of operation or manner;
(e) Provide Form 16 for installed works;
(f) Provide an electronic BIM, CAD and PDF copy of As-Built documentation marked As-Built including the conversion of shop drawings to As-Built status. As-Built documents are to be provided progressively as soon as reasonably available with final versions not later than Substantial Completion;
(g) Provide training to Operations and Facilities Maintenance Staff as nominated by the builder. The Subcontractor will provide a Training Plan in accordance with the obligations of the Commissioning and Handover Management Plan. Training shall be completed prior to Practical Completion with ongoing support as necessary.  Note that the builder Commissioning and Handover Management Plan requires professional video recording and presentation of all training sessions as part of the client “train the trainer”.  The Subcontractor is responsible for the training materials and production of quality material associated with its Works, for inclusion into the O&M manuals;  	Comment by reviewer: The builder Completions Plan	Comment by reviewer: Should this be substantial completion or the date for practical completion?	Comment by reviewer: the client or the Principal?
(h) Spare parts: No spare parts are required to be provided for Practical Completion unless specifically nominated in the Specification or this Scope of Works document, however, the Subcontractor is required to maintain sufficient spare parts and replacement components as required for maintenance purposes up until the end of the Defects Liability Period. The Subcontractor is to replace spare parts consumed during the maintenance period;
(i) Provide operational commissioning assistance to the client via an on-site full time Supervisor(s) or similar who is fully conversant with the Project for 12 weeks (five days per week but available seven days per week, 24 hours per day) from the Date of Practical Completion; 
(j) Maintenance during the Defect Liability Period:
(i) the builder and the client will be utilising the maintenances as scheduled within the O&M software to forecast future activities, subcontractors involved and the client personnel required on site, including security guards;  
(ii) Provide preventative, manufacturer’s recommended and statutory maintenance during the Defect Liability Period as per the Subcontract and Specification. This scope includes provision of all consumables and components. Timing of all maintenances (date, time of day, and time window available) is to be as predetermined with the builder and the client Facility Maintenance provider;
(iii) If annual maintenance is required by manufacturer’s recommendations or statutory requirements, that maintenance is to be provided by the Subcontractor;  
(iv) For integrated maintenance testing, the Subcontractor shall responsible for being the lead subcontractor for completion testing, and the lead role in maintenance testing, including organising the timing of testing with the builder/ the client and the associated trades;  	Comment by reviewer: Who is the lead subcontractor? Reword – the subcontractor may be responsible – completion plan
i. Special attention needs to be provided for operationally invasive maintenances such as AS1851 part 18 fire smoke control testing;
(v) Allowance is to be made for generator black start test at Practical Completion and at the end of the Defect Liability Period. Attendance is required on site by every trade to confirm correct operation of equipment. Note that the diesel consumed during testing by the new generator is considered as a Subcontractor supplied consumable. Testing prior to Practical Completion is to all failure scenario's accommodated within the design;
(vi) The expectation is that after Practical Completion, the Project will immediately become an operational prison. As such, after Practical Completion, the Subcontractor must abide by the client rules and processes. No exceptions;
(vii) For all maintenances, besides the client Facility Maintenance procedures to be followed, the requirements of maintenance activity reporting in the O&M software are to be completed;	Comment by reviewer: Facility Maintenance
(k) At  least  eight  weeks  before  the  end  of  the  Defects  Liability  Period,  submit  via the document management system and the O&M software a  schedule  of  tools, portable instruments and spare parts necessary  for  maintenance  of  the installation.  For each item, state the recommended quantity and the manufacturer’s current price. Include the following in the prices:
(i) Checking receipt, marking and numbering in accordance with the spare parts schedule; 
(ii) Packaging and delivery to site; 
(iii) Painting, greasing and packing to prevent deterioration during storage; and 
(iv) Referencing equipment schedules in the operation and maintenance manuals;
(l) Requirements before the end of the DLP include:
(i) Thermographic scan of all switchboards and provide report;
(ii) Recertify all fire penetrations and systems;
(iii) Complete all annual maintenances;
(iv) Electrical to conduct 11kV generator black test.  All services subcontractors to attend;
(v) Replace any spares used in DLP; and
(vi) Provide a list of spares recommended for the client to have on site, including pricing.


1. SUBCONTRACT DOCUMENTS
(a) The Subcontract Technical Specification, Drawings and Other Documents are provided in electronic format via the document management system References; Tender No. ____; document ____; document ____; 	document ____; document ____; document ____; document ____; document ____; and document ____
(b) Documents include but are not limited to:
(i) Technical Specifications 
(ii) Geotechnical reports; and
(iii) Drawings.
(c) Copies of Australian Standards and Codes of Practice and the like as referenced in the Scope of Works are not included in this Subcontract, however, they remain integrated with the Scope of Works.  These documents can be provided upon the request of the Subcontractor; and
(d) If the Tendered Subcontract Documents have been altered during the Request for Tender period and prior to Award of Subcontract, the Price for the alterations is deemed to be included in the Price Schedule and the Subcontractor shall have no entitlement to a variation claim or to extend the Date for Completion.
	Document Name
	Document Number
	Rev

	Report on Geotechnical Investigation the project
	document ____
	0

	Site Water analysis Report
	document ____
	2

	Soil Assessment Report - AMENDMENT to 200mm subgrade
	document ____
	3

	COVER SHEET
	drawing ____
	B

	MATERIALS & FINISHES SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECINCT CONTEXT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE CONTEXT PLAN - SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE CONTEXT PLAN - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	B

	FENCE LOCATION PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - SECURE ZONES
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - STAFF / PRISONER SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - STAFF / PRISONER SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - STAFF / PRISONER SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - STAFF / PRISONER SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - MAINTENANCE / TUGS SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - MAINTENANCE / TUGS SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - MAINTENANCE / TUGS SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - MAINTENANCE / TUGS SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - EMERGENCY SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - EMERGENCY SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	C

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - EMERGENCY SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - EMERGENCY SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - COVERED WALKWAY TYPES
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - KEY
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 06
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 07
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 08
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 09
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 25
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 29
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 30
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 31
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 32
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 33
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 34
	drawing ____
	A

	COVERED WALKWAYS
	drawing ____
	B

	COVERED WALKWAY - SECTION / DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	FENCE TYPES - SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	B

	FENCE TYPES - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	B

	FENCE TYPES - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	I

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL HEIGHTS - ELEC/COMMS/SECURITY/MECH
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL HEIGHTS - PLUMBING
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL HEIGHTS - FFE
	drawing ____
	C

	DDA TYPICAL LAYOUTS
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL GRABRAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	DOOR THRESHOLDS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR THRESHOLDS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR THRESHOLDS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	FLOOR FINISHES - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	FLOOR FINISHES - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	FLOOR SLAB JUNCTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	FLOOR SLAB JUNCTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	FLOOR SLAB JUNCTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	WALL TYPES - PARTITIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PARTITIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PARTITIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PARTITIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - BLOCK & BRICK SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - BLOCK & BRICK SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PRECAST SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PRECAST SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PRECAST SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PRECAST SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - GIRTS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - LININGS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL DETAILS & JUNCTION - VERTICAL TRANSITIONS - SH 1
	drawing ____
	B

	WALL DETAILS & JUNCTION - VERTICAL TRANSITIONS - SH 2
	drawing ____
	C

	WALL DETAILS & JUNCTION -VERTICAL TRANSITIONS - SH 3
	drawing ____
	A

	WALL DETAILS & JUNCTIONS - PLAN DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WALL DETAILS & JUNCTIONS - PLAN DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	CONSTRUCTION DETAILS - MOVEMENT JOINTS
	drawing ____
	B

	WALL ACCESS PANELS
	drawing ____
	B

	WALL & ROOF JUNCTION DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	WALL & ROOF JUNCTION DETAILS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF DETAILS - ROTATED FASCIA - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF DETAILS - ROTATED FASCIA - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF DETAILS - ROTATED FASCIA - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF DETAILS - ROTATED FASCIA - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF DETAILS - PRECAST - ZERO OVERHANG - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF GUTTER DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	CONSTRUCTION DETAILS - ROOF MOVEMENT JOINT
	drawing ____
	B

	CEILING DETAILS - ACOUSTIC
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING DETAILS - SECURE
	drawing ____
	B

	CEILING DETAILS - FIRE
	drawing ____
	B

	ACCESS PANELS DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	STAIR DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	STAIR DETAILS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - TABLES & STOOLS
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - VISITS TABLE & STOOL PLANS & DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - BALUSTRADE DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - HANDRAILS DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - PLANT DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - CORNER GUARD & BENCH SEAT
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - TV ENCLOSURE
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - SERVICES ENCLOSURE
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - BOLLARD & BIN BRACKET
	drawing ____
	B

	ANTI-LIGATURE FIXTURES - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ANTI-LIGATURE FIXTURES - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRIVACY SCREEN DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL TOILET & SEARCH CUBICAL DETAILS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL TOILET & SEARCH CUBICAL DETAILS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	NON CONTACT VISITS DIVIDING WALL DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	ALUMINIUM WINDOW FRAME DETAILS - EXTERNAL
	drawing ____
	C

	ALUMINIUM WINDOW FRAME DETAILS - EXTERNAL
	drawing ____
	C

	ALUMINIUM WINDOW FRAME DETAILS - INTERNAL
	drawing ____
	C

	ALUMINIUM WINDOW FRAME DETAILS - INTERNAL
	drawing ____
	C

	ALUMINIUM WINDOW FRAME - SMOKE SPILL LOUVRE
	drawing ____
	A

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - PRECAST CONCRETE
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - BLOCKWORK
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - DAY ROOM
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - DOOR FRAME JUNCTION
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - RHS WINDOWS
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - MANAGEMENT
	drawing ____
	B

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - PHARMACY WINDOW
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - PHARMACY WINDOW
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - DAY ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - INTERNAL
	drawing ____
	C

	OBSERVATION WINDOW
	drawing ____
	C

	OBSERVATION WINDOW - MANAGMENT UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS -OFFICER POST-CARD PASS
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	NON CONTACT VISITS DIVIDING WALL
	drawing ____
	A

	LOUVRE DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	LOUVRE DETAILS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR FRAME TYPES - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS - PRECAST
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS - BLOCKWORK
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS - LIGHTWEIGHT FRAME
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS - ALUMINIUM
	drawing ____
	A

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	DOOR LEAF TYPES -SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	DOOR LEAF TYPES -SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	DOOR LEAF TYPES -SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	B

	SINGLE CELL - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	SINGLE CELL - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	SINGLE CELL - SAFETY UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	SINGLE CELL - MENTAL HEALTH UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	SINGLE CELL - DETENTION UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	DOUBLE CELL - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	DOUBLE CELL - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	ACCESSIBLE CELL
	drawing ____
	B

	ACCESSIBLE CELL - SAFETY UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	ACCESSIBLE CELL - MENTAL HEALTH UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	ACCESSIBLE CELL - DETENTION UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	OBSERVATION CELL - DETENTION UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	STAIR DETAILS - SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	B

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - NORTH
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - SOUTH
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - EAST
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - WEST
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	D

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART A
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART B
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART C
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART D
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART A
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART B
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART A
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART B
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN - PART A
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN PART B
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN - PART C
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF PLAN - PART D
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - NORTH
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SOUTH
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - EAST
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - WEST
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	J

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	J

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	UPPER LEVEL - SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	STAIR DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	UPPER PLANT FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	UPPER PLANT SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	UPPER PLANT REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	B

	ELEVATIONS - NORTH
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SOUTH
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - EAST AND WEST
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	I

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	I

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	I

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	G

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	J

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	J

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	STAIR SETOUTS & DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	STAIR DETAILS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR ROOM DETAILS KEY PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	FIRST FLOOR ROOM DETAILS KEY PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	E

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	STAIR SETOUT AND DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	J

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART PLAN 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART PLAN 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	A

	STAIR SETOUT AND DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	E

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTION - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	A

	STAIR SETOUT AND DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	CONSTRUCTION DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	K

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	I

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	I

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	H

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	K

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	SERVICES LEVEL FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SERVICES LEVEL FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GOUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SERVICES LEVEL SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SERVICES LEVEL SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SERVICES LEVEL SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SERVICES LEVEL SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 3 (THERAPEUTIC)
	drawing ____
	A

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	SERVICES LEVEL RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	G

	SERVICES LEVEL FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	E

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	CONSTRUCTION DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	C

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	SERVICES LEVEL RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	B

	SERVICES LEVEL FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	C

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - OVERALL
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	CEILING SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR WALL SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR WALL SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	HIGH LEVEL WALL SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	HIGH LEVEL WALL SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR - REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR - REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	E

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	G

	EXISTING AND DEMOLITION PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	UPPER WALL SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY ROOF EAST DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY ROOF NORTH DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY ROOF SOUTH DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY ROOF GENERAL DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	CONSTRUCTION DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	SITE PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR - EXISTING AND DEMOLITION PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR - PROPOSED ARRANGEMENT
	drawing ____
	E

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR - SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR - SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR - REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR - RISK / SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR - FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	GCS Scope Report
	document ____
	B

	EXTERIOR FINISHES LEGEND
	document ____
	C

	INTERIOR FINISHES LEGEND
	document ____
	G

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	D

	INTERIOR JOINERY LEGEND
	document ____
	F

	Hydraulic Fixtures Schedule
	document ____
	C

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE LEGEND
	document ____
	D

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	JOINERY SHEET MARK UP SHEET 4
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	JOINERY SHEET MARK UP SHEET 3
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	WALL TYPE MARK UP
	drawing ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Contents
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - General Requirements
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Adhesives, Sealants & Fasteners
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Metals & Prefinishes
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Concrete
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Masonry
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Structural Steel
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Steel - Hot Dip Galvanised Coatings
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Security Steel
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Windows & Glazing
	document ____
	B

	Architectural Specification - Doors
	document ____
	B

	LABELLING STRATEGY
	document ____
	A

	Irrigation Early Works IFC Cover Page
	drawing ____
	0

	IRRIGATION COVER SHEET
	drawing ____
	D

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	Irrigation Detailed design
	drawing ____
	C

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION
	drawing ____
	A

	Subcontractor Health Safety and Environment (HSE) Pack
	document ____
	3

	COVID-19 Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Cutover Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Cyber Security Guidelines
	document ____
	A

	Commissioning & Handover Management Plan
	document ____
	E

	Digital Engineering Management Plan
	document ____
	F

	Document Management Plan
	document ____
	4

	Environmental Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Workplace Emergency Response Plan
	document ____
	B

	Subcontractor Modelling Guidelines
	document ____
	1

	Project Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Quality Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Security Access Management Plan
	document ____
	C

	Traffic Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Workplace Safety Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Waste Management Plan
	document ____
	A

	Structure Methodology Presentation
	document ____
	3

	The project - Water Management System Operational Requirements
	document ____
	1

	Commonality of Engineering Services
	document ____
	D

	Sub Contractors Compounds
	drawing ____
	D

	Sub Contractors Compound #1 - Part A
	drawing ____
	D

	Sub Contractors Compound #1 - Part B
	drawing ____
	D

	Sub Contractors Compound #2
	drawing ____
	D

	Sub Contractors Compound #6
	drawing ____
	D

	Sub Contractors Compound #3, #4, #5
	drawing ____
	D

	Potable Water Reticulation Management Handbook
	document ____
	1

	Existing Site Reticulation Sheet 9 ( CD_D10-42) Issue G and Sheet 12 ( CD_D10-39) Issue G.pdf
	N/A
	 

	COVER SHEET, LOCALITY PLAN & DRAWING SCHEDULE SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET, LOCALITY PLAN & DRAWING SCHEDULE SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GENERAL NOTES
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS OVERALL
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 25
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 29
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 30
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS TYPICAL SECTIONS & DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS TYPICAL SECTIONS & DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT OVERALL PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	B

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	B

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	PAVEMENT OVERALL PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	PAVEMENT DETAILS AND TYPICAL ROAD SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL ROAD CROSS SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER OVERALL PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 25
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 29
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 30
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 1 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 2 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 3 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 4 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 5 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 6 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 7 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 8 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 9 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 10 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 11 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 12 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 13 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 14 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 15 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCE01 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	MCE02 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERNAL STUB ROADS LONG SECTIONS SHEET 1 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERNAL STUB ROADS LONG SECTIONS SHEET 2 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERNAL STUB ROADS LONG SECTIONS SHEET 3 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERNAL STUB ROADS LONG SECTIONS SHEET 4 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERNAL STUB ROADS LONG SECTIONS SHEET 5 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	MKB09 TO MKB15 LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS SHEET 1 OF 4
	drawing ____
	A

	MKB01 TO MKB15 LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS SHEET 2 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	MKB01 TO MKB15 LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS SHEET 3 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	MKB01 TO MKB15 LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS SHEET 4 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	MKR01 TO MKR05 LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 1 OF 17
	drawing ____
	B

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 2 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 3 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 4 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 5 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 6 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 7 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 8 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 9 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 10 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 11 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 12 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 13 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 14 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 15 OF 17
	drawing ____
	B

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 16 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 17 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	OVERALL SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	C

	GENERAL CONSTRUCTION NOTES SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION NOTES SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	STEELWORK CONSTRUCTION NOTES SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE PLAN OVERALL
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	A

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND DETAILS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND DETAILS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL COLUMN DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL WALL DETAILS MASONRY
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL CONCRETE WALL DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL PRECAST PANEL TYPES SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	TYPICAL PRECAST PANEL TYPES SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL PRECAST PANEL BASE AND MID CONNECTIONS
	drawing ____
	E

	TYPICAL PRECAST PANEL TOP CONNECTIONS
	drawing ____
	E

	TYPICAL PRECAST JOINT DETAILS
	drawing ____
	E

	TYPICAL SECURE JOINT DETAILS
	drawing ____
	E

	PRECAST DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL SUSPENDED SLAB DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	TYPICAL SUSPENDED SLAB DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL STAIR DETAILS
	drawing ____
	D

	STEEL STAIR 1 DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL STAIR 2 DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	PLANT STEEL STAIR DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	STEEL DETAILS BASE PLATES SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL STEEL DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL STEEL DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL STEEL DETAILS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL DETAILS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	STEEL DETAILS SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	STEEL DETAILS SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	STEEL DETAILS SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	TYPICAL STEEL BASE PLATE DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	TYPICAL FENCE DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL FENCE DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL FENCE DETAILS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL FENCE DETAILS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	COVERED WALKWAY DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	SHELTER FRAMING PLAN AND ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTINGS AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	LOWER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	UPPER ROOF FRAMING
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	C

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SUSPENDED SLAB PART 1 BOTTOM REINFORCEMENT
	drawing ____
	C

	SUSPENDED SLAB PART 1 TOP REINFORCEMENT
	drawing ____
	C

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PART 3
	drawing ____
	E

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTINGS AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	LEVEL 1 CONCRETE LID GENERAL ARRANGEMENT
	drawing ____
	F

	STEEL CEILING PLANS
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF FRAMING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	STEEL FRAMING ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	D

	STEEL FRAMING ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SLAB ON GROUND BTM REINFORCEMENT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	PLANT GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	UPPER ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTION SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	CEILING FRAMING
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	UPPER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	DRAWING REMOVED FROM SET
	drawing ____
	C

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTINGS AND SLLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLABS GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLABS GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN 2
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLABS GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	STEEL CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	LOWER ROOF PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	UPPER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	A

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	LOWER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	HIGH ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	C

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	LEVEL 1 SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR CEILING FRAMING PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	LEVEL 1 CEILING FRAMING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	H

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	LEVEL 2 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	LEVEL 2 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	LEVEL 2 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	LEVEL 1 CEILING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	LEVEL 1 CEILING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND LEVEL CEILING PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	J

	UPPER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING PLAN AND LOWER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	UPPER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	UPPER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR CEILING FRAMING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	LEVEL 1 SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	LEVEL 1 SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR AND FOOTING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	COOLING TOWER FRAMING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR AND FOOTING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	LEVEL 1 CONCRETE LID G.A. PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	Civil Specification
	document ____
	2

	Brick & Block Specification
	document ____
	A

	Concrete Specification
	document ____
	A

	Detailed Excavation Specification
	document ____
	A

	Steel Specification
	document ____
	A

	SITE - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - KEY PLAN
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	3

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	2

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	2

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	3

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	3

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	2

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	F

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	F

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	3

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	3

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	3

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	F

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	3

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	3

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	3

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	3

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 25
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 29
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 30
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 31
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 32
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 33
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 34
	drawing ____
	B

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - AD-006 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - AD-006 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - AD-004 OFFICER POST COMMUNICATION AV RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	F

	STANDARD DETAILS - COMMUNICATIONS LEGEND
	drawing ____
	I

	STANDARD DETAILS - PSN NETWORK SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	D

	STANDARD DETAILS - PN NETWORK SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - ESN NETWORK SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	D

	STANDARD DETAILS - IP TELEVISION NETWORK SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL TRENCH DETAILS
	drawing ____
	D

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL PIT DETAILS
	drawing ____
	F

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL CST CROSSOVER DETAILS
	drawing ____
	D

	STANDARD DETAILS - AUDIO VISUAL DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL SERVICES SEGREGATION
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL CABLE SUPPORT DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - AUDIO VISUAL DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - FLOOR BOX DETAIL
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - TELEVISION CONTROL PANEL DETAIL
	drawing ____
	A

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - CP-03 CHILLER PLANT DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - CP-01 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	DETENTION UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	DETENTION UNIT - DU-102 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - DU-102 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - DU-017 OFFICER POST COMMUNICATION AV RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-038 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-038 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-038 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-064 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-064 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-067 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-067 COMMUNICATION RACKS ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-082 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-082 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-082 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	GATEHOUSE - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	E

	GATEHOUSE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	GATEHOUSE - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - ROOF PLAN COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GATEHOUSE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	GATEHOUSE - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	GATEHOUSE - GH-107 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	GATEHOUSE - GH-107 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - GH-107 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GATEHOUSE - GH-107 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	GATEHOUSE - COMMUNICATIONS FIBRE RISER DETAIL
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES - IN-029 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES - IN-029 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES - IN-029 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES - IN-005 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	E

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - KL-101 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - KL-101 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - MF-014 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - MF-014 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH - MH-009 WRITE UP DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH - MH-105 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - MH-105 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	MEDICAL UNIT - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	MEDICAL UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	 

	MEDICAL UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	MEDICAL UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	 

	MEDICAL UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	 

	MEDICAL UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	 

	MEDICAL UNIT - MU-102 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - MU-102 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - MU-026 OFFICER POST COMMUNICATIONS AV RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	PRISONER PROCESSING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	PRISONER PROCESSING - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	PRISONER PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - PP-030 OFFICER POST COMMUNICATIONS AV RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - RE-007 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - RE-007 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SE-202 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SE-202 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	G

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - SH-006 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - SH-006 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	SUBSTATION 1 - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION 1 - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - TR-007 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - TR-007 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - VI-028 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS - VI-028 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITS - VI-056 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITS - VI-056 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITOR PROCESSING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITOR PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	VISITOR PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITOR PROCESSING - VP-005 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITOR PROCESSING - VP-005 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	CHILLER PLANT - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - X21-03 CHILLER PLANT DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - X21-03 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - COVER PAGE & DRAWING
	drawing ____
	D

	SUBSTATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE - KEY PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	F

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	F

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 25
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 29
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 30
	drawing ____
	B

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - AD-004 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - AD-006 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - AD-006 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - SECURITY LEGEND
	drawing ____
	H

	STANDARD DETAILS - SCN NETWORK SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	D

	STANDARD DETAILS - SCN ROUTING SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - SECURITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - SECURITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM LAN HIERACHY
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - VIRTUAL ENVIRONMENT SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - INTERCOM SYSTEM SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - INTERCOM HIERARCHY SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - MOBILE RADIO COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - UNDER VEHICLE SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM (UVSS) SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - CCTV SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	D

	STANDARD DETAILS - BIOMETRICS SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - PIMS SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	D

	STANDARD DETAILS - REED SWITCH INSTALLATION DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL ROLLER DOOR DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - CAMERA POLE & BRACKET DETAILS
	drawing ____
	D

	STANDARD DETAILS - INTERCOM & CAMERA MOUNTING DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - INTERCOM BOLLARD DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - TELEVISION CONTROL PANEL
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL SURGE PROTECTION DETAIL
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - MOBILE DURESS RECEIVER POLE & FOOTING DETAIL
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL BUILDING MOBILE DURESS MOUNTING DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - ZERO CLIENT DETAIL
	drawing ____
	D

	STANDARD DETAILS - ZERO CLIENT DETAIL - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL SCN EDGE BUILDING DETAIL
	drawing ____
	D

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL BUILDING SECURITY PANEL DETAIL
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL REED SWITCH INSTALLATION DETAIL
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL BUILDING CAMERA INSTALLATION DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL BUILDING CAMERA INSTALLATION DETAILS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL SERVICES SEPARATION
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL CABLE SUPPORT DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - PERIMETER CROSS SECTION
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - PERIMETER FIXED CAMERA SECTION
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - PDS SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	D

	STANDARD DETAILS - TAUT WIRE FENCE - DETAIL SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - TAUT WIRE FENCE - DETAIL SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - TAUT WIRE FENCE - DETAIL SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - PERIMETER EQUIPMENT CUBICLE DETAILS
	drawing ____
	D

	STANDARD DETAILS - TRAINING SIMULATOR SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	A

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	DETENTION UNIT - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	DETENTION UNIT - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - FIRST FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - DU-017 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - DU-102 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - DU-102 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-029 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-072 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-051 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-038 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-038 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-064 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-064 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-001 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-036 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-067 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-067 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-082 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-082 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	GATEHOUSE - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	GATEHOUSE - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	GATEHOUSE - ROOF PLAN SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GATEHOUSE - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	GATEHOUSE - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	GATEHOUSE - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	GATEHOUSE - FIRST FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GATEHOUSE - GH-104 MASTER CONTROL ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	GATEHOUSE - GH-104 MASTER CONTROL ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	GATEHOUSE - GH-107 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	GATEHOUSE - GH-107 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	GATEHOUSE - GH-107 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GATEHOUSE - GH-107 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GATEHOUSE - GH-023 ACCOUTREMENTS DETAIL
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - GH-023 ACCOUTREMENTS PROCESS
	drawing ____
	D

	GATEHOUSE - SECURITY FIBRE RISER DETAIL
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES - IN-024 OFFICER POST DETAIL
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES - IN-011 OFFICER POST DETAIL
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES - IN-029 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES - IN-029 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES - IN-005 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES - IN-005 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - KL-002 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - KL-101 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - KL-101 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - MF-014 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - MF-014 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH - MH-007 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH - MH-087 MOVEMENT CONTROL DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH - MH-105 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH - MH-105 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	MEDICAL UNIT - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	MEDICAL UNIT - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	MEDICAL UNIT - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - FIRST FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - MU-009 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - MU-026 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - MU-030 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - MU-002 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	MEDICAL UNIT - MU-102 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - MU-102 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	PRISONER PROCESSING - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	PRISONER PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - FIRST FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - PP-001 PRISONER PROCESSING DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - RE-007 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - RE-007 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SE-066 OFFICER POST DETAIL
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SE-202 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SE-202 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - SH-002 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - SH-006 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - SH-006 SECURITY & AV RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	D

	SUBSTATION 1 - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION 1 - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - TR-007 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - TR-007 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITS - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR MOBILE DURESS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - VI-011 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - VI-042 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITS - VI-034 OFFICER POST DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - VI-028 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS - VI-028 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITS - VI-056 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITS - VI-056 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITOR PROCESSING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITOR PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR SECURITY RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITOR PROCESSING - VP-008 RECEPTION DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITOR PROCESSING - VP-005 SECURITY EQUIPMENT ROOM LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITOR PROCESSING - VP-005 SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SECURITY LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	SECURITY RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	SPECIFICATION FOR COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES EARLY WORKS
	document ____
	0

	SPECIFICATION FOR COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
	document ____
	C

	SPECIFICATION FOR ELECTRONIC SECURITY SERVICES
	document ____
	D

	ELECTRICAL SERVICES ADDENDUM
	document ____
	A

	COVER PAGE
	drawing ____
	1

	DRAWING SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	3

	LEGEND OF SYMBOLS
	drawing ____
	5

	POWER SERVICES - PRECINCT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	SCHEDULE - ELECTRICAL PITS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	2

	SCHEDULE - ELECTRICAL PITS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	4

	LV BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE LV SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SITE LV SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SITE LV SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	MSB-04 SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	G

	MSB-05 SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE WIDE - LV CABLE SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	C

	UPS BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	UPS SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	UPS SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	UPS SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	UPS SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	DB-X21-UPS SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	UPS CABLE SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	A

	EMERGENCY LIGHTING BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	LIGHTING CONTROL SCHEMATIC AND SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	D

	NEW STANDBY GENERATOR (GEN 3) - COMMS BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	NETWORK CONTROL SYSTEM OVERVIEW
	drawing ____
	B

	LOAD SHED CONTROL BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	B

	HV SWITCHING LOGIC TABLES - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	HV SWITCHING LOGIC TABLES - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	HV SWITCHING LOGIC TABLES - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	HV SWITCHING LOGIC TABLES - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	HV SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	SS-M1-01 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	B

	SS-M1-02 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	B

	SS-M1-03 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	B

	SS-M1-04 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	B

	SS-M1-05 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	B

	GENERATOR 3 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	TEMPORARY LOAD BACK PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-01 HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	B

	SS-M1-02 HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	B

	SS-M1-03 HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	B

	SS-M1-04-HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	B

	SS-M1-05-HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	B

	GENERATOR 3 PROTECTION SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	A

	TEMPORARY LOAD BACK PROTECTION SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	A

	TYPICAL SUBSTATION DC SUPPLY BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE EARTHING BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE EARTHING SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL BUILDING EARTHING SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	A

	TYPICAL SUBSTATION EARTHING DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	TYPICAL PIT
	drawing ____
	A

	TYPICAL PERIMETER SECTION
	drawing ____
	A

	CENTRAL FACILITY SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	CENTRAL FACILITY UPS RETICULATION SCHEDULE AND SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	B

	METERING NETWORK SCHEMATICS
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE PLAN - OVERALL - OVERALL
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 07
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 08
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 09
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	F

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	F

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	F

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	F

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	5

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	5

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	5

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	5

	SITE WIDE - ELECTRICAL SERVICES - SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	4

	SITE WIDE - POWER SERVICES - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	F

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	E

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	E

	SITE MASTERPLAN LIGHTING DISTRIBUTION BOARD LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILS - LOW VOLTAGE PITS AND TRENCHES
	drawing ____
	2

	DETAILS - HIGH VOLTAGE PITS
	drawing ____
	1

	DETAILS - TRENCHES
	drawing ____
	2

	CENTRAL FACILITIES - SITE PLAN - ELECTRICAL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	F

	EXTERNAL FACILITIES NEW STANDBY GENERATOR LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	INSTALLATION DETAILS - SITE SERVICES
	drawing ____
	0

	ADMINISTRATION - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	ADMINISTRATION - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	G

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	G

	ADMINISTRATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION PLAN - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	ADMINISTRATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION PLAN - ROOF LEVEL
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	DETENTION UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	DETENTION UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	DETENTION UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	DETENTION UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - SCHEMATIC - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	H

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	H

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SCHEMATIC SHEET 2 SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART A
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART B
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART A
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART B
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SUBSTATION EQUIPMENT LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - TRENCH LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - 3D DETAILS GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	GATEHOUSE - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - DB-GH-01 & DB-GH-UPS SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	G

	GATEHOUSE - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	E

	GATEHOUSE - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	J

	GATEHOUSE - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	H

	GATEHOUSE - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	H

	GATEHOUSE - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	H

	GATEHOUSE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	GATEHOUSE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SUBSTATION EQUIPMENT LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SUBSTATION TRENCH LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - 3D DETAILS GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - POWER & LIGHTING LAYOUT - PLANTROOM
	drawing ____
	B

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	B

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	MEDICAL UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	MEDICAL UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	PRISONER PROCESSING - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	G

	PRISONER PROCESSING - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	G

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - SUBSTATION EQUIPMENT LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - TRENCH AND EARTHING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - 3D DETAILS - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEDULE CABLE AND CHASSIS
	drawing ____
	E

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEDULE LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	F

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	G

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	G

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	G

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	G

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAMS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAMS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	H

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	E

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	J

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	J

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	H

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	J

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	J

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	H

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	H

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SPORTS HALL - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	SPORTS HALL - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	B

	SPORTS HALL - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	SPORTS HALL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - ROOF LEVEL
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SHEET 1 SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SHEET 2 SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SHEET 3 SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	G

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	G

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	G

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	G

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - ROOF LEVEL
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITS BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	VISITS BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITS BUILDING - EQUIPMENT AND CABLE TRAY LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - EARTH AND TRENCHING LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - 3D DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - POWER & LIGHTING LAYOUT PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITOR PROCESSING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITOR PROCESSING - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITOR PROCESSING - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITOR PROCESSING - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITOR PROCESSING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	VISITOR PROCESSING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	A

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	CHILLER PLANT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	CHILLER PLANT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	A

	
CHILLER PLANT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	A

	CHILLER PLANT - DIMENSIONS - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - EARTHING AND FLOOR ARCHORING GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - 3D DETAILS - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	SUBSTATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SUBSTATION - CABLE TRAY LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - TRENCH LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - DIMENSION DETAIL - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE
	drawing ____
	2

	DRAWING SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	2

	LEGEND OF SYMBOLS
	drawing ____
	1

	GENERAL NOTES
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE PLAN
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 07
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 08
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 09
	drawing ____
	D

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	D

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	E

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	D

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	D

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	D

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	E

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	A

	DRY FIRE SERVICES - SITE SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	C

	DRY FIRE SERVICES - OVERALL SITE NETWORK CABLING
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	2

	DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	0

	ADMINISTRATION BULDING - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BULDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	GATEHOUSE - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	GATEHOUSE - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - PLANT LEVEL
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - PLANT LEVEL
	drawing ____
	C

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUDRY - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUDRY - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUDRY - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUDRY - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING WET FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITOR PROCESSING - FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - SITE PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	CHILLER PLANT - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	A

	CHILLER PLANT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SUBSTATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAWING SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	3

	LEGEND OF SYMBOLS
	drawing ____
	4

	GENERAL SPECIFICATION NOTES
	drawing ____
	1

	PIPEWORK, MATERIALS, FITTINGS & FIXTURES SCHEDULES
	drawing ____
	3

	EQUIPMENT & PLANT SCHEDULES - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - OVERALL SITE
	drawing ____
	4

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 07
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 08
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 09
	drawing ____
	1

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	1

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	4

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	4

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	2

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	1

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	2

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	4

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	1

	DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	1

	DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	2

	DETAILS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	2

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	DETENTION UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	GATEHOUSE - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRAINAGE / WATER & GAS LAYOUT - PLANT ROOM & DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	B

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	C

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	SPORTS HALL - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITOR PROCESSING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	CHILLER PLANT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE
	drawing ____
	1

	DRAWING SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	2

	LEGEND OF SYMBOLS
	drawing ____
	1

	GRILLE SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - OVERALL SITE
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 07
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 08
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 09
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	3

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	3

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	1

	BUILDING GROUP DETAIL SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING GROUP DETAIL SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	ADMINISTRATION BULDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BULDING - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	B

	ADMINISTRATION BULDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - LOW LEVEL
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - HIGH LEVEL
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	A

	DETENTION UNIT - SECTION AND DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - SECTION AND DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - SECTION AND DETAILS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 4
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SCHEMATICS
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANTROOMS
	drawing ____
	B

	GATEHOUSE - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - LAYOUT FIRST FLOOR ROOF
	drawing ____
	A

	GATEHOUSE - LAYOUT FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SCHEMATICS
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANTROOM
	drawing ____
	B

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT ROOF
	drawing ____
	A

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	B

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANTROOM
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SHEET 1 OF 3
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SHEET 2 OF 3
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SHEET 3 OF 3
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEAMENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT -ROOF - SHEET 1LTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT -ROOF - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATICSSHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - ROOF - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - ROOF - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LAYOUT -ROOF - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATICS
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION BUILDING - AIR SCHEMATIC SHEET 1 OF 3
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION BUILDING - AIR SCHEMATIC SHEET 2 OF 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION BUILDING - AIR SCHEMATIC SHEET 3 OF 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SECTIONS AND DETAILS
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATICS
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - LAYOUT - CHW SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITS BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITOR PROCESSING - PROPOSED LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - DEMO LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITOR PROCESSING - SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - PLANTROOM SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - COOLING TOWERS ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	CHILLER PLANT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - CHILLER PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	SUBSTATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SUBSTATION - SECTION
	drawing ____
	B

	ELECTRICAL SERVICES ADDENDUM
	document ____
	A

	ACOUSTIC DESIGN REPORT
	document ____
	D

	ECOLOGICALLY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK
	document ____
	D

	FIRE ENGINEERING REPORT
	document ____
	E

	LUMINAIRE SCHEDULE
	document ____
	0

	MECHANICAL SERVICES - PRELIMINARY EQUIPMENT SCHEDULES
	document ____
	G

	ELECTRICAL SPECIFICATION
	document ____
	C

	ELECTRICAL SPECIFICATION
	document ____
	C

	FIRE PROTECTION SPECIFICATION
	document ____
	C

	HYDRAULIC SPECIFICATION
	document ____
	C

	MECHANICAL SERVICES SPECIFICATION
	document ____
	C

	FIRE ANT BIOSECURITY ZONE MAP
	document ____
	A

	ELECTRICAL SERVICES ADDENDUM
	document ____
	B

	EXTERNAL FACILITIES
	AB_A10-11
	A

	EXISTING FACILITY COMPOUND
	AB_A10-10
	A









1. PRICING SCHEDULE (BILL OF QUANTITIES; SCHEDULE OF PRICES OR RATES)
3.1 PRICING SCHEDULE
The whole of the work under the Subcontract is priced as Lump Sum Items. Table 7.2 summarizes the cost of the Works and constitutes the Subcontract Sum inclusive all costs, charges, and mark-ups and including all the obligations in the Subcontract, of whatever nature whether stated or implied.
The description of work in Table 7.2 is not necessarily complete in all respects and reference should be made to the documents referred to in the Subcontract that are to be read in conjunction with this schedule.
The Pricing Schedule shall be deemed to include, but not be limited to, the following:
· All labour and supervision;
· All plant, equipment, and machinery;
· All materials;
· Customs Duty where applicable, and like charges;
· All consumables;
· All fees, licenses, royalties, and the like;
· All statutory on-costs, insurances, and fixed costs;
· All profit and overheads; and
· All other costs associated with the work under the Subcontract
3.2 PRICING SCHEDULE TABLE
	Item Ref
	Description of Work
	QTY
	UNIT
	Total Subcontract Value

	SC01
	PRELIMINARIES, PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC02
	SECURE BUILDING 1 (SE1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC03
	SECURE BUILDING 2 (SE2)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC04
	SECURE BUILDING 3 (SE3)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC05
	DETENTION UNIT BUILDING (DU)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC06
	SECURE ENTRY BUILDING (E2)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC07
	THERAPEUTIC COMMUNITY BUILDING (TH) (Identical to SE1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC08
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 1 (RE1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC09
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 2 (RE2)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC10
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 3 (RE3)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC11
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 4 (RE4)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC12
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 5 (RE5)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC13
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 6 (RE6)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC14
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 7 (RE7)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC15
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 8 (RE8)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC16
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 9 (RE9)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC17
	RESIDENTIAL ENTRY BUILDING (E1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC18
	TRANSITIONAL COMMUNITY BUILDING 1 (T1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC19
	TRANSITIONAL COMMUNITY BUILDING 2 (T2)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC20
	TRANSITIONAL COMMUNITY BUILDING 3 (T3)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC21
	TRANSITIONAL COMMUNITY BUILDING 4 (T4)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC22
	INDUSTRIES BUILDING (IN)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC23
	SPORTS HALL BUILDING 1 (SH1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC24
	SPORTS HALL BUILDING 2 (SH2)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC25
	KITCHEN and LAUNDRY BUILDING (KL)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC26
	VISITS BUILDING (VI)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC27
	MULTI FAITH BUILDING (MF)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC28
	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING (MH)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC29
	PRISONER PROCESSING and MEDICAL UNIT BUILDING (PP and MU)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC30
	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING (AD)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC31
	GATEHOUSE (GH)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC32
	REFURB EXISTING VISITOR PROCESSING  (EXISTING FACILITY - VP)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC33
	INFRASTRUCTURE
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC34
	CHILLER PLANT (X21)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC35
	WASTE WATER TREATMENT PLANT
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC36
	TEMPORARY SERVICES
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC37
	RE6 SUBSTATION  BUILDING (X22)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC38
	THE SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF NON-PICK CAULKING
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC39
	PASSIVE FIRE - THIRD PARTY CERTIFICATION
	1
	LS
	$____

	 
	Total Subcontract Sum 
	 
	 
	$____



3.3 TABLE OF VARIATION PRICE OPTIONS
	Item No.
	Description
	Rate
	Unit

	VPO-01
	SOW Item 4.18(a) Existing potable water system
	$____
	LS

	VPO-02
	SOW Item 4.18(b) Recyclable water pumps
	$____
	LS

	VPO-03
	SOW Item 4.18(c) Vending machine GPOs & data outlet
	$____
	LS

	VPO-04
	Update O&M manual to include existing HV
	$____
	LS

	VPO-05
	Connect and download protection settings from relays and update O&M manual 
	$____
	LS



3.4 TABLE OF LABOUR AND MARK-UP RATES (FOR VARIATIONS)
	Item No.
	Description
	Rate
	Unit

	SOR-01
	Electrical Tradesperson
	$____
	HR

	SOR-02
	1st year apprentice electrician 
	$____
	HR

	SOR-03
	2nd year apprentice electrician
	$____
	HR

	SOR-04
	3rd year apprentice electrician
	$____
	HR

	SOR-05
	4th year apprentice electrician
	$____
	HR

	SOR-06
	Trades Assistance
	$____
	HR

	SOR-07
	Leading Hand electrical tradesperson
	$____
	HR

	SOR-08
	Foreman electrical tradesperson
	$____
	HR

	SOR-09
	Revit draftsperson
	$____
	HR

	SOR-10
	System Programming rates
	$____
	HR

	SOR-11
	Supervisor
	$____
	HR

	SOR-12
	Project Manager
	$____
	HR



Site Labour Rate shall include but not be limited to the following costs:
· Wages incl loadings, allowances in accordance with any enterprise or site agreement relating to conditions of employment in connection with the Site or the Project;
· Fringe benefits or other benefits;
· Redundancy;
· Leave (such as sick, annual, long service and public holidays) and superannuation;
· Taxes, insurances, allowances;
· Travel time / allowances to and from the Site daily and for R&R;
· Communication support costs (such as site radios, computer hardware/software, IT, site phones and mobile phones);
· Any Subcontractor charges;
· All other costs necessary to complete the Works; and
· Off-Site and On-Site Overhead and profit to include for all costs, overhead and profit in connection therewith, including any allowances.
Site Labour Rate measurement is to be to the nearest quarter hour as verified by the builder Representative approved daily timesheets. 

3.5 TABLE OF VARIATION RATES 
	Item No.
	Description
	Rate
	Unit

	Supply and install (non fire rated)

	SOR-13
	150mm cable ladder 
	 $        221.08 
	M

	SOR-14
	300mm cable ladder 
	 $        235.61 
	M

	SOR-15
	450mm cable ladder 
	 $        256.21 
	M

	SOR-16
	600mm cable ladder 
	 $        313.46 
	M

	SOR-17
	150mm cable ladder bend
	 $        256.86 
	Per

	SOR-18
	300mm cable ladder bend
	 $        260.72 
	Per

	SOR-19
	450mm cable ladder bend
	 $        300.10 
	Per

	SOR-20
	600mm cable tray ladder bend
	 $        445.79 
	Per

	SOR-21
	150mm cable basket 
	 $        212.07 
	Per

	SOR-22
	300mm cable basket
	 $        234.37 
	M

	SOR-23
	600mm cable basket 
	 $        256.92 
	M

	SOR-24
	150mm cable basket bend
	 $          77.65 
	Per

	SOR-25
	300mm cable basket bend
	 $        101.88 
	Per

	SOR-26
	600mm cable basket bend
	 $        157.86 
	Per

	SOR-27
	25mm MD conduit saddled to wall/ceiling
	 $          78.51 
	M

	SOR-28
	32mm MD conduit saddled to wall/ceiling 
	 $          96.61 
	M

	Supply and install cable on existing cable tray/ladder/catenary wire, including cable ties.

	SOR-29
	120mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $          51.46 
	M

	SOR-30
	95mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $          42.89 
	M

	SOR-31
	70mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $          34.63 
	M

	SOR-32
	50mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $          34.54 
	M

	SOR-33
	35mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $          23.77 
	M

	SOR-34
	25mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $          21.66 
	M

	SOR-35
	16mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $          14.02 
	M

	SOR-36
	300mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $        181.20 
	M

	SOR-37
	240mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $        103.10 
	M

	SOR-38
	185mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $          84.04 
	M

	SOR-39
	150mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $          72.45 
	M

	SOR-40
	120mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $          72.46 
	M

	SOR-41
	95mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $          52.12 
	M

	SOR-42
	70mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $          44.70 
	M

	SOR-43
	50mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $          37.54 
	M

	SOR-44
	240mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $        103.79 
	M

	SOR-45
	185mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          68.15 
	M

	SOR-46
	150mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          66.03 
	M

	SOR-47
	120mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          52.94 
	M

	SOR-48
	95mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          42.84 
	M

	SOR-49
	70mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          34.70 
	M

	SOR-50
	50mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          28.68 
	M

	SOR-51
	35mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          28.66 
	M

	SOR-52
	25mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          20.38 
	M

	SOR-53
	16mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          17.13 
	M

	SOR-54
	1 x 4c+e 6mm2 fire rated cable
	 $          41.45 
	M

	SOR-55
	1 x 4c+e 10mm2 fire rated cable
	 $          48.20 
	M

	SOR-56
	1 x 4c+e 16mm2 fire rated cable
	 $          41.44 
	M

	SOR-57
	1 x 4c+e 25mm2 fire rated cable
	 $          54.57 
	M

	SOR-58
	1 x 4c+e 35mm2 fire rated cable
	 $          71.23 
	M

	SOR-59
	1 x 4c+e 50mm2 fire rated cable
	 $          85.49 
	M

	SOR-60
	1 x 4c+e 6mm2 XLPE cable
	 $          32.47 
	M

	SOR-61
	1 x 4c+e 10mm2 XLPE cable
	 $          38.64 
	M

	SOR-62
	1 x 4c+e 16mm2 XLPE cable
	 $          43.41 
	M

	SOR-63
	1 x 4c+e 25mm2 XLPE cable
	 $          57.64 
	M

	SOR-64
	1 x 4c+e 35mm2 XLPE cable
	 $          61.71 
	M

	SOR-65
	1 x 4c+e 50mm2 XLPE cable
	 $          78.87 
	M

	SOR-66
	2.5mm2 2c TPS
	 $          10.96 
	M

	SOR-67
	2.5mm2 2c+e TPS
	 $          12.35 
	M

	SOR-68
	4.0mm2 2c+e TPS
	 $          10.39 
	M

	SOR-69
	6.0mm2 2c+e TPS
	 $          16.02 
	M

	SOR-70
	10.0mm2 2c+e TPS
	 $          20.41 
	M

	SOR-71
	Cat6A data cable
	 $             6.98 
	M

	SOR-72
	Lighting control cable
	 $             6.62 
	M

	SOR-73
	12c OS2 FOC
	 $          15.10 
	M

	SOR-74
	6c OS2 FOC
	 $          11.34 
	M

	Supply and install cable within existing conduit.
 

	SOR-75
	120mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $          38.99 
	M

	SOR-76
	95mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $          31.38 
	M

	SOR-77
	70mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $          25.02 
	M

	SOR-78
	50mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $          22.07 
	M

	SOR-79
	35mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $          12.36 
	M

	SOR-80
	25mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $          12.36 
	M

	SOR-81
	16mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $             8.74 
	M

	SOR-82
	300mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $        100.11 
	M

	SOR-83
	240mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $          74.17 
	M

	SOR-84
	185mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $          59.01 
	M

	SOR-85
	150mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $          49.21 
	M

	SOR-86
	120mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $          51.38 
	M

	SOR-87
	95mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $          32.67 
	M

	SOR-88
	70mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $          26.20 
	M

	SOR-89
	50mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $          19.99 
	M

	SOR-90
	240mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          77.04 
	M

	SOR-91
	185mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          52.77 
	M

	SOR-92
	150mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          50.39 
	M

	SOR-93
	120mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          39.60 
	M

	SOR-94
	95mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          31.39 
	M

	SOR-95
	70mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          24.68 
	M

	SOR-96
	50mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          19.61 
	M

	SOR-97
	35mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          20.11 
	M

	SOR-98
	25mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          13.21 
	M

	SOR-99
	16mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          11.27 
	M

	SOR-100
	1 x 4c+e 6mm2 fire rated cable
	 $          28.60 
	M

	SOR-101
	1 x 4c+e 10mm2 fire rated cable
	 $          36.71 
	M

	SOR-102
	1 x 4c+e 16mm2 fire rated cable
	 $          31.59 
	M

	SOR-103
	1 x 4c+e 25mm2 fire rated cable
	 $          42.82 
	M

	SOR-104
	1 x 4c+e 35mm2 fire rated cable
	 $          56.45 
	M

	SOR-105
	1 x 4c+e 50mm2 fire rated cable
	 $          69.94 
	M

	SOR-106
	1 x 4c+e 6mm2 XLPE cable
	 $          36.72 
	M

	SOR-107
	1 x 4c+e 10mm2 XLPE cable
	 $          41.64 
	M

	SOR-108
	1 x 4c+e 16mm2 XLPE cable
	 $          33.86 
	M

	SOR-109
	1 x 4c+e 25mm2 XLPE cable
	 $          46.19 
	M

	SOR-110
	1 x 4c+e 35mm2 XLPE cable
	 $          48.37 
	M

	SOR-111
	1 x 4c+e 50mm2 XLPE cable
	 $          61.74 
	M

	Termination of single core cable including gland, lug, shrink etc. 

	SOR-112
	120mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $        146.93 
	Per

	SOR-113
	95mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $        136.32 
	Per

	SOR-114
	70mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $        116.31 
	Per

	SOR-115
	50mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $        106.64 
	Per

	SOR-116
	35mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $          87.43 
	Per

	SOR-117
	25mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $          87.18 
	Per

	SOR-118
	16mm2 Cu earth cable
	 $          67.78 
	Per

	SOR-119
	300mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $        330.13 
	Per

	SOR-120
	240mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $        308.49 
	Per

	SOR-121
	185mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $        259.43 
	Per

	SOR-122
	150mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $        236.16 
	Per

	SOR-123
	120mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $        238.09 
	Per

	SOR-124
	95mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $        204.00 
	Per

	SOR-125
	70mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $        204.00 
	Per

	SOR-126
	50mm2 Cu Fire rated single core cable
	 $        184.12 
	Per

	SOR-127
	240mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $        193.01 
	Per

	SOR-128
	185mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $        168.27 
	Per

	SOR-129
	150mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $        168.27 
	Per

	SOR-130
	120mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $        156.78 
	Per

	SOR-131
	95mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $        126.52 
	Per

	SOR-132
	70mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $        116.31 
	Per

	SOR-133
	50mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $        106.64 
	Per

	SOR-134
	35mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          87.43 
	Per

	SOR-135
	25mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          87.18 
	Per

	SOR-136
	16mm2 Cu XLPE single core cable
	 $          77.77 
	Per

	Termination of multi core cable including gland, lug, shrink etc.

	SOR-137
	1 x 4c+e 6mm2 fire rated cable
	 $        260.46 
	Per

	SOR-138
	1 x 4c+e 10mm2 fire rated cable
	 $        298.65 
	Per

	SOR-139
	1 x 4c+e 16mm2 fire rated cable
	 $        344.35 
	Per

	SOR-140
	1 x 4c+e 25mm2 fire rated cable
	 $        382.93 
	Per

	SOR-141
	1 x 4c+e 35mm2 fire rated cable
	 $        411.66 
	Per

	SOR-142
	1 x 4c+e 50mm2 fire rated cable
	 $        496.13 
	Per

	SOR-143
	1 x 4c+e 6mm2 XLPE cable
	 $        175.65 
	Per

	SOR-144
	1 x 4c+e 10mm2 XLPE cable
	 $        212.92 
	Per

	SOR-145
	1 x 4c+e 16mm2 XLPE cable
	 $        239.26 
	Per

	SOR-146
	1 x 4c+e 25mm2 XLPE cable
	 $        277.84 
	Per

	SOR-147
	1 x 4c+e 35mm2 XLPE cable
	 $        302.21 
	Per

	SOR-148
	1 x 4c+e 50mm2 XLPE cable
	 $        407.99 
	Per

	Supply and installation of RCBO or MCB within switchboard (prior to energisation)

	SOR-149
	16A single pole MCB
	 $          98.97 
	Per

	SOR-150
	20A single pole MCB
	 $          98.97 
	Per

	SOR-151
	25A single pole MCB
	 $        129.63 
	Per

	SOR-152
	32A single pole MCB
	 $        129.63 
	Per

	SOR-153
	16A three pole MCB
	 $        106.35 
	Per

	SOR-154
	20A three pole MCB
	 $        106.35 
	Per

	SOR-155
	25A three pole MCB
	 $        106.35 
	Per

	SOR-156
	32A three pole MCB
	 $        106.35 
	Per

	SOR-157
	40A three pole MCB
	 $        106.35 
	Per

	SOR-158
	50A three pole MCB
	 $        106.35 
	Per

	SOR-159
	63A three pole MCB
	 $        110.35 
	Per

	SOR-160
	16A single pole RCBO
	 $        116.60 
	Per

	SOR-161
	20A single pole RCBO
	 $        466.40 
	Per

	SOR-162
	25A single pole RCBO
	 $        511.27 
	Per

	SOR-163
	20A three pole RCBO
	 $        363.25 
	Per

	SOR-164
	25A three pole RCBO
	 $        363.25 
	Per

	Supply, install, test and commission including as built mark up, programming, handling, procurement, mark out, labelling, mounting bracket and 10 metres of cable as applicable. (Non WP or VP)

	SOR-165
	10A DGPO c/w 10m of cable
	 $        243.18 
	Per

	SOR-166
	15A single phase outlet c/w 10m of cable
	 $        888.40 
	Per

	SOR-167
	Data point incl. patch leads, jacks and plate.
	 $        399.53 
	Per

	Supply and installation of light fittings

	SOR-168
	EM1
	 $        478.96 
	Per

	SOR-169
	EM2
	 $        585.09 
	Per

	SOR-170
	EM3
	 $        751.62 
	Per

	SOR-171
	EM4
	 $        497.63 
	Per

	SOR-172
	EM5
	 $        868.92 
	Per

	SOR-173
	EM6
	 $        417.68 
	Per

	SOR-174
	EX1
	 $        633.60 
	Per

	SOR-175
	EX2
	 $        791.27 
	Per

	SOR-176
	EX3
	 $        847.96 
	Per

	SOR-177
	EX4
	 $     1,416.60 
	Per

	SOR-178
	EX5
	 $     1,119.82 
	Per

	SOR-179
	EX6
	 $        530.17 
	Per

	SOR-180
	EX7
	 $        771.50 
	Per

	SOR-181
	EX8
	 $        721.72 
	Per

	SOR-182
	B1
	 $     1,300.15 
	Per

	SOR-183
	B1/E
	 $     1,444.62 
	Per

	SOR-184
	B2
	 $        446.24 
	Per

	SOR-185
	B2/E
	 $     1,025.20 
	Per

	SOR-186
	B3
	 $        446.24 
	Per

	SOR-187
	B4
	 $     1,025.20 
	Per

	SOR-188
	B4/E
	 $        964.72 
	Per

	SOR-189
	B4/S
	 $     1,452.42 
	Per

	SOR-190
	C2
	 $     1,604.77 
	Per

	SOR-191
	C2/B
	 $     1,621.84 
	Per

	SOR-192
	C2/E
	 $     2,155.32 
	Per

	SOR-193
	C2/A
	 $     1,667.27 
	Per

	SOR-194
	C2/N
	 $     1,771.44 
	Per

	SOR-195
	C3
	 $        823.23 
	Per

	SOR-196
	C4
	 $     1,217.76 
	Per

	SOR-197
	C4/E
	 $     2,585.92 
	Per

	SOR-198
	C5
	 $     1,111.55 
	Per

	SOR-199
	C5/E
	 $     2,585.92 
	Per

	SOR-200
	C6
	 $     1,255.68 
	Per

	SOR-201
	CL2
	 $     3,014.11 
	Per

	SOR-202
	D1
	 $        454.53 
	Per

	SOR-203
	D2
	 $        689.05 
	Per

	SOR-204
	D4
	 $        511.55 
	Per

	SOR-205
	D7
	 $     3,788.21 
	Per

	SOR-206
	L1
	 $     1,199.10 
	Per

	SOR-207
	L2
	 $     1,434.69 
	Per

	SOR-208
	L3
	 $     1,327.35 
	Per

	SOR-209
	L4
	 $        948.52 
	Per

	SOR-210
	L6
	 $     2,075.97 
	Per

	SOR-211
	L7
	 $     1,038.54 
	M

	SOR-212
	L8
	 $     1,349.51 
	Per

	SOR-213
	R1
	 $        818.34 
	Per

	SOR-214
	T3
	 $        790.35 
	Per

	SOR-215
	T4
	 $        790.35 
	Per

	SOR-216
	SL1
	 $        421.70 
	Per

	SOR-217
	W1
	 $     1,143.66 
	Per

	SOR-218
	H1
	 $     1,339.90 
	Per

	SOR-219
	PT1/PT2
	 $   14,670.77 
	Per

	SOR-220
	PT1/PT3
	 $   14,627.12 
	Per

	SOR-221
	PT2
	 $     8,586.18 
	Per

	SOR-222
	PT3
	 $     8,522.55 
	Per

	SOR-223
	PT4
	 $     7,997.13 
	Per

	SOR-224
	PT4/PT5
	 $     9,840.24 
	Per

	SOR-225
	PT5/PT5
	 $     9,720.77 
	Per

	SOR-226
	PT5
	 $     8,126.63 
	Per

	SOR-227
	PT6
	 $     4,370.35 
	Per

	SOR-228
	PT7
	 $     4,393.31 
	Per

	SOR-229
	PT8
	 $     6,880.48 
	Per

	SOR-230
	VRL
	 $     2,404.33 
	Per

	SOR-231
	IG1
	 $     2,425.05 
	Per

	SOR-232
	BL1
	 $        973.50 
	Per

	SOR-233
	1 Gang Light Switch c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP & Ex conduit)
	 $        297.57 
	Per

	SOR-234
	2 Gang Light Switch c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP & Ex conduit)
	 $        448.43 
	Per

	SOR-235
	3 Gang Light Switch c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP & Ex conduit)
	 $        602.13 
	Per

	SOR-236
	4 Gang Light Switch c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP & Ex conduit)
	 $        756.73 
	Per

	SOR-237
	5 Gang Light Switch c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP & Ex conduit)
	 $        793.86 
	Per

	SOR-238
	6 Gang Light Switch c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP & Ex conduit)
	 $        849.56 
	Per

	SOR-239
	10A IP56 1 Pole Isolator c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP)
	 $        447.38 
	Per

	SOR-240
	20A IP56 1 Pole Isolator c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP)
	 $        463.26 
	Per

	SOR-241
	32A IP56 1 Pole Isolator c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP)
	 $        584.00 
	Per

	SOR-242
	50A IP56 1 Pole Isolator c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP)
	 $     1,298.89 
	Per

	SOR-243
	20A IP56 3 Pole Isolator c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP)
	 $        843.13 
	Per

	SOR-244
	32A IP56 3 Pole Isolator c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP)
	 $     1,047.32 
	Per

	SOR-245
	50A IP56 3 Pole Isolator c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP)
	 $     1,298.89 
	Per

	SOR-246
	63A IP56 3 Pole Isolator c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP)
	 $     1,526.47 
	Per

	SOR-247
	20A IP66 Metal Clad 1 Pole Isolator c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP)
	 $        523.26 
	Per

	SOR-248
	20A IP66 Metal Clad 3 Pole Isolator c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP)
	 $        923.13 
	Per

	SOR-249
	32A IP66 Metal Clad 3 Pole Isolator c/w 10m of cable (Non WP or VP)
	 $     1,157.32 
	Per

	SOR-250
	Install 10A SGPO Non Custodial
	 $        230.84 
	EA

	SOR-251
	Install 10A DGPO Non Custodial
	 $        231.34 
	EA

	SOR-252
	Install 10A DGPO With USB Non Custodial
	 $        311.10 
	EA

	SOR-253
	Install 15A SGPO Non Custodial
	 $        269.41 
	EA

	SOR-254
	Install 10A SGPO Body Protect Custodial
	 $        670.51 
	EA

	SOR-255
	Install 10A DGPO With USB Custodial
	 $        478.21 
	EA

	SOR-256
	Install 10A DGPO Body Protect Custodial
	 $        670.64 
	EA

	SOR-257
	Install 10A SGPO Custodial
	 $        379.99 
	EA

	SOR-258
	Install 10A DGPO Custodial
	 $        460.93 
	EA

	SOR-259
	Install 15A SGPO Custodial
	 $        427.02 
	EA

	SOR-260
	Install 20A SGPO Body Protect Custodial
	 $        781.44 
	EA

	SOR-261
	Install 10mA Body Protect RCD Custodial
	 $        542.64 
	EA

	SOR-262
	Install Emergency Stop Button Custodial
	 $     1,246.14 
	EA

	SOR-263
	Install 10A 3Pin WP SGPO Non Custodial
	 $        398.19 
	EA

	SOR-264
	Install 10A 3Pin WP DGPO Non Custodial
	 $        398.19 
	EA

	SOR-265
	Install 15A 3Pin WP SGPO Non Custodial
	 $        216.96 
	EA

	SOR-266
	Install 15A 3Pin WP SGPO Non Custodial Suspended
	 $        312.51 
	EA

	SOR-267
	Install 20A 3Pin WP SGPO Non Custodial
	 $        781.60 
	EA

	SOR-268
	Install 20A 5Pin WP SGPO Non Custodial
	 $        574.53 
	EA

	SOR-269
	Install 32A 5Pin WP SGPO Non Custodial
	 $        726.91 
	EA

	SOR-270
	Install 32A 5Pin WP SGPO Non Custodial Suspended
	 $        646.21 
	EA

	SOR-271
	Install 10A 1Ph Isolator Non Custodial
	 $        265.38 
	EA

	SOR-272
	Install 16A 1Ph Isolator Non Custodial
	 $        216.97 
	EA

	SOR-273
	Install 20A 1Ph Isolator Non Custodial
	 $        244.56 
	EA

	SOR-274
	Install 40A 1Ph Isolator Non Custodial
	 $        373.82 
	EA

	SOR-275
	Install 50A 1Ph Isolator Non Custodial
	 $        436.65 
	EA

	SOR-276
	Install 20A 3Ph Isolator Non Custodial
	 $        324.95 
	EA

	SOR-277
	Install 40A 3Ph Isolator Non Custodial
	 $        561.01 
	EA

	SOR-278
	Install 50A 3Ph Isolator Non Custodial
	 $        436.65 
	EA

	SOR-279
	Install 63A 3Ph Isolator Non Custodial
	 $        699.35 
	EA

	SOR-280
	Install 10A 3Pin SGPO Custodial
	 $        379.99 
	EA

	SOR-281
	Install 10A 3Pin DGPO Custodial
	 $        460.93 
	EA

	SOR-282
	Install 16A 1Ph Isolator Custodial
	 $        324.40 
	EA

	SOR-283
	Install 20A 1Ph Isolator Custodial
	 $        326.32 
	EA

	SOR-284
	Install 32A 1Ph Isolator Custodial
	 $        336.86 
	EA

	SOR-285
	Install 40A 1Ph Isolator Custodial
	 $        613.74 
	EA

	SOR-286
	Install 10A 3Ph Isolator Custodial
	 $        562.00 
	EA

	SOR-287
	Install 20A 3Ph Isolator Custodial
	 $        443.76 
	EA

	SOR-288
	Install 1 Gang Switch Non Custodial
	 $        249.21 
	EA

	SOR-289
	Install 2 Way Switch Non Custodial
	 $        770.97 
	EA

	SOR-290
	Install LCP Non Custodial
	 $     3,815.55 
	EA

	SOR-291
	Instlal PIR Non Custodial
	 $        144.13 
	EA

	SOR-292
	Install 1 Gang Switch Custodial
	 $        432.13 
	EA

	SOR-293
	Install 5 Gang Swtich Custodial
	 $        831.85 
	EA

	SOR-294
	Install Single Gang Data Non Custodial
	 $        359.72 
	EA

	SOR-295
	Install Double Gang Data Non Custodial
	 $        382.27 
	EA

	SOR-296
	Install Single Gang Data Custodial
	 $        320.82 
	EA

	SOR-297
	Install Double Gang Data Custodial
	 $        317.79 
	EA

	SOR-298
	Install FB1
	 $        789.67 
	EA

	SOR-299
	Install AV Plate Custodial
	 $        671.98 
	EA

	Supply and installation of lighting control

	SOR-300
	Lighting control – 1 channel relay
	 $        389.08 
	Per

	SOR-301
	Lighting control – 2 channel relay
	 $        495.75 
	Per

	SOR-302
	Lighting control – 4 channel relay
	 $        562.42 
	Per

	SOR-303
	Lighting control – 8 channel relay
	 $        713.08 
	Per

	Supply and installation of inground works

	SOR-304
	25mm HD conduit
	 $          20.32 
	MTR

	SOR-305
	32mm HD conduit
	 $          21.72 
	MTR

	SOR-306
	40mm HD conduit
	 $          24.43 
	MTR

	SOR-307
	50mm HD conduit
	 $          28.20 
	MTR

	SOR-308
	63mm HD conduit
	 $          41.63 
	MTR

	SOR-309
	80mm HD conduit
	 $          51.05 
	MTR

	SOR-310
	100mm HD conduit
	 $          47.15 
	MTR

	SOR-311
	150mm HD conduit
	 $          63.90 
	MTR

	SOR-312
	25mm HD conduit bend
	 $          28.74 
	EA

	SOR-313
	32mm HD conduit bend
	 $          31.36 
	EA

	SOR-314
	40mm HD conduit bend
	 $          43.40 
	EA

	SOR-315
	50mm HD conduit bend
	 $          45.93 
	EA

	SOR-316
	63mm HD conduit bend
	 $          63.17 
	EA

	SOR-317
	80mm HD conduit bend
	 $          74.40 
	EA

	SOR-318
	100mm HD conduit bend
	 $          67.48 
	EA

	SOR-319
	150mm HD conduit bend
	 $        100.53 
	EA

	SOR-320
	25mm comms conduit
	 $          20.22 
	MTR

	SOR-321
	32mm comms conduit
	 $          21.38 
	MTR

	SOR-322
	50mm comms conduit
	 $          28.75 
	MTR

	SOR-323
	80mm comms conduit
	 $          50.66 
	MTR

	SOR-324
	100mm comms conduit
	 $          48.07 
	MTR

	SOR-325
	25mm comms conduit bend
	 $          27.44 
	EA

	SOR-326
	32mm comms Conduit bend
	 $          30.32 
	EA

	SOR-327
	50mm comms conduit bend
	 $          47.36 
	EA

	SOR-328
	80mm comms conduit bend
	 $          66.68 
	EA

	SOR-329
	100mm comms conduit bend
	 $          96.13 
	EA

	SOR-330
	Type H1 electrical pit
	 $   51,161.82 
	EA

	SOR-331
	Type H2 electrical pit
	 $   36,867.59 
	EA

	SOR-332
	Type E1 electrical pit
	 $     8,285.85 
	EA

	SOR-333
	Type E2 electrical pit
	 $   11,497.85 
	EA

	SOR-334
	Type E3 electrical pit
	 $   31,942.50 
	EA

	SOR-335
	Type E4 electrical pit
	 $   31,764.46 
	EA

	SOR-336
	Type E5 electrical pit
	 $   30,498.76 
	EA

	SOR-337
	Type C1 communications pit
	 $     6,595.38 
	EA

	SOR-338
	Type C2 communications pit
	 $     6,028.05 
	EA

	SOR-339
	Supply and install 25mm LD conduit (3m) within block wall during construction complete with p/s adaptor and wall box.
	 $        140.25 
	Per 

	Civil Rates (excl survey)

	SOR-357
	Excavation in all materials
	 $        126.64 
	M3

	SOR-358
	Bedding - supply and install bedding sand
	 $        249.28 
	M3

	SOR-359
	Backfill – supply and install select backfill materials sources from Trench Excavation (civil consultant specification)
	 $        142.63 
	M3

	SOR-360
	Backfill – supply and install type 2.5, CBR15 crushed rock (under pavement areas)
	 $        239.40 
	M3

	SOR-361
	E/O Excavation in rock from surface to 1,500mm below surface
	 $        192.85 
	M3





A bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, do not form part of this Subcontract, save to the extent that it is used by the builder to value variations under this Subcontract. 
Notwithstanding that any bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, may be in error in that it may contain an item which should not have been included therein or may omit an item which should have been included therein or that it contains any other error, ambiguity, inconsistency or omission, the Subcontractor:
· will have no claim against the builder with respect thereto;
· hereby releases the builder from any claim, demand, suit, cause of action or proceeding in connection with any bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the variation rates contained at Item 7.5.
Each item of the bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the variation rates at Item 7.5 will, without limiting the generality thereof, be deemed to be priced to include:
· labour and all costs and on costs in connection therewith;
· all plant, equipment (including access equipment) and machinery;
· materials and goods, and all costs in connection with handling, conveyance, delivery, unloading, storing, returning, packaging, hoisting and the like;
· waste of material;
· establishment costs, overhead costs (on site and off site) and profits; and
· all necessary attendance (including, without limiting the generality, taking delivery; unloading and assistance in unloading; getting in; storing; protecting; providing all necessary labour in relation to; provision of water and electricity; providing scaffolding in position for all purposes; and all sanitary and messing accommodation).
The builder will have no liability to the Subcontractor by reason of any acceptance, approval or other endorsement of whatever nature in connection with any bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, and the Subcontractor will have no claim in connection with the same.
Quantities in a bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, are estimated quantities only.
The builder is not required to give a direction by reason of the actual quantity of an item required to perform the Works being greater or less than the quantity shown in a bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5.
Neither the supply by the builder of any bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, for tender purposes nor anything in, or in relation to, any such bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, will prevent the builder from requiring the Works to be varied.


1. PROGRAMMING REQUIREMENTS
4.1 GENERAL PROGRAMMING REQUIREMENTS
Refer to clause 33.2 of the Subcontract for construction program requirements.
In addition to this, the Subcontractor’s construction program shall be submitted in electronic (native file) copy form using a computer software package approved by the builder. Unless approved otherwise in writing by the builder, the only software packages accepted are:
(a) Primavera P6;
(b) Microsoft Projects; and
(c) Microsoft Excel.










Appendix A Common Cell Riser Main Frame (CCRMF) 

A-1	Responsibility Matrix
Table 1 below indicates the services responsibility matrix for the common services cell riser;
	Scope
	Discipline

	Provision and accurate location of all incoming services
	By relevant service subcontractor

	Sanitary Plumbing
	Hydraulics

	Water supply
	Hydraulics

	Water Management System 
	Hydraulics

	Water Management System Back Bone Cabling
	Hydraulics

	Power supply/ GPO’s etc.
	Electrical

	Fire suppression
	Fire

	Fire detection (VESDA)
	Fire

	Toilet Exhaust 
	Mechanical

	Supply air Snorkel free area calculation and verification
	Mechanical

	Duress Alarms
	Security

	Common Cell Riser Main Frame
	Hydraulics

	Cell Riser Services Fixings
	Supplied by respective service subcontractor and fitted by Hydraulics

	Transport, cranage and installation of Common Cell Riser
	Hydraulics

	Lead services cell riser coordination.
	Hydraulics

	Final connection of services 
	By relevant service subcontractor

	Manufacturing location of Common Cell Riser to be advised by Hydraulics subcontractor
	Respective service subcontractor to allow skilled labour at Hydraulics common cell riser construction facility (with the exception as outlined In A-1.1 Common Cell Riser Main Frame)




A-1.1	Common Cell Riser Main Frame
(a) Common Cell Riser Main Frame (CCRMF) is to be constructed by the Hydraulics subcontractor. The Hydraulics subcontractor shall provide third party design and certification by and Registered Professional Engineer of Queensland (RPEQ) for structural and lifting adequacy; and
(b) Where the works do not require a licenced tradesperson to carry out the works, the services subcontractors will free issue to the Hydraulics subcontractor any proprietary bracketing, cable tray and the like for the Hydraulics subcontractor to install within the CCRMF. The Hydraulics subcontractors will be responsible for the supply and installation of all fixings required to secure the free issued material to the CCRMF.




A-1.2	Shop Drawing Deliverables and Coordination
(a) The Hydraulics subcontractor is responsible for the shop drawing lead to fully coordinated the services design of the CCRMF; 
(b) The services subcontractors shall provide the Hydraulics subcontractor continual design/ shop drawings updates as directed by the Hydraulics subcontractor and the builder until the design model is 100% clash free;
(c) Installation shall not proceed on any section of works until 100% clash free coordination has been signed off by the builder and all services subcontractors;
(d) Any rectification works, changes, or modifications required either at the manufacturing facility or on site due to lack of coordination, poor workmanship or failing to maintain program, will be carried out by the respective subcontractor free of charge (except for free issued items as outlined in A-1.1. Common Cell Riser Main Frame).
A-1.3	Prototype
(a) The Hydraulics subcontractor is to manufacture a prototype of the double storey cell duct and CCRMF for sign of by the builder and the relevant services subcontractor prior to full production of the CCRMF. 
A-1.4	Services Installation/Sequencing
(a) The Hydraulics subcontractor is responsible for providing the facility for the construction of the CCRMF. The location of the facility is to be located within 125km radius of the Project;
(b) The Hydraulics subcontractor shall ensure the facility is secure, undercover, has adequate parking, sanitary and lunch facilities, and general purpose power. The facility is to allow the services subcontractors to place a minimum of two lockable containers to store tools and materials outside of working hours. The manufacturing facility shall also have a forklift to allow loading and unloading of deliveries. The builder are to inspect and approve the manufacturing facility prior to commencement of the manufacturing of the CCRMF;
(c) Hydraulics subcontractor to provide the builder and the services subcontractors with a detailed construction program that aligns with the Construction Programme;
(d) All services subcontractors shall ensure they provide sufficient labour and materials to maintain the Construction Programme; and
(e) The completed CCRMF shall be weather protected (wrapped), transported to site and lifted and secured into place by the Hydraulics subcontractor.
A-1.5	Testing 
(a) The services subcontractors shall test all services in accordance with their relevant engineering specification and Australian Standards prior to delivery to site. All tests are to be witnessed and ITPs signed off by a builder representative before any site installation takes place.

A-1.6	Facility Amenities.
(a) The Hydraulics Subcontractor shall provide facilities (toilets, first aid, kitchen amenities, cribs etc) for all other services to utilise. Up to 20 personnel is to be allowed for. 



Appendix B   Design Responsibility Matrix

The following table is provided as guidance to the division of responsibility for design of the Works
	Area
	Schematic Design, Design Development and IFC
	Shop Drawings and As Constructed
	Approval By

	Design Drawings & Schematics 
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Single Line Drawings
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Sizing of Plant and Equipment 
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Plant Layout and Plantroom sizes. 
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Authority Fees and Approvals
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Coordination of Service Design
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Low Voltage Electrical Design and Equipment Layout
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Cable tray/ Ladder Layouts
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Rack Layouts 
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Patch panel termination layout
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Low Voltage Main Switch Board and metering schematics design
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Discrimination and Coordination
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Distribution Board Schedules
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Circuiting and Switching
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Testing and Commissioning
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Control System
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Interfacing with Other Services
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Certification of design & installation
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Workshop Drawings
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Design Calculations
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	As Built Documentation
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Co-ordinated Fire Control strategy and documentation.
	Consultant
	Subcontractor 
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Sample Approvals
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Warranties
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder





Appendix C  Building Works Responsibilities
Note: ‘X’ indicates responsible party.
C-1	Interface Works with the builder 
*the builder in the table below refers to other contractors
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Electrical
	The builder*

	 
	Coordination
	 
	 

	C-1.01
	Connections and coordination to other services and the like.
	X
	 

	C-1.02
	Full flexibility during the coordination, execution, and completion of works as requested by the builder.
	X
	 

	 
	General Penetrations etc.
	 
	 

	C-1.03
	Clear openings >Ø50mm, through the building structure for the passage of cable trays, conduits, and the like. These will need to be cast in by the form worker, precast or partition subcontractor.	Comment by reviewer: The builder can do it but its at their cost. All BWC must be on precast drawings.	Comment by reviewer: Agreed - this has been nominated elsewhere	Comment by reviewer: Electrician will not be paying for the penetration. He marks up the drawing of what he wants and the precast subbies manufactures it.	Comment by reviewer: We don't want the electrical cutting opening greater than 200mm, it needs to be done by the CP or Precast etc with cost by the trades with the electrical subcontractor to provide the cut out detailed 	Comment by reviewer: The subcontractor has to co ordinate the penetration size and provide the details to the structural subcontractor 
	 
	X

	C-1.04
	Clear openings <Ø50mm, including core holes, scabbling, chasing through the building structure for the passage of cable trays, conduits, and the like.
	X
	 

	C-1.05
	Cutting, patching, trimming, and making good of the building structure and ceilings for the installation of ductwork, pipework, air terminal devices, and the like, based on the installation taking place in accordance with the building program.
	X
	 

	C-1.06
	Opening locations are to be detailed by the Subcontractor and provided in time to meet the Construction Programme. If information is not provided in time to meet Construction Programme, any openings which are required post construction of element will be at Subcontractor’s expense.
	X
	 

	C-1.07
	Seal all ductwork, pipe penetrations and the like to air seal for airtight shafts and plenums.
	X
	 

	C-1.08
	Supply and install all sleeves, holding bolts, conduits and any other fixings required to be built in during construction and fixed into formwork prior to concrete pour.
	X
	 

	C-1.09
	Cast in all conduits (exposed conduits shall be avoided) and coordinate cast-ins, penetrations, and the like to the formwork/ structure system.
	X
	 

	C-1.10
	Make all roof penetrations and water proofing of those roof penetrations to the satisfaction of the builder.
	X
	 

	C-1.11
	Provision of steel angle bunding around all floor penetrations.
	X
	 

	C-1.12
	Bunding and sealing of floor penetrations.
	X
	 

	C-1.13
	Floor membrane subcontractor to integrate.
	 
	X

	C-1.14
	Provision of non-pick sealant around/ under all Subcontractor installed items where required by security classification.
	X
	 

	 
	Safety Mesh
	 
	 

	C-1.15
	Installation of safety mesh in penetrations through suspended floors.
	 
	X

	C-1.16
	Clearing penetrations for the use by the Subcontractor of safety mesh and the erection and maintenance of barricades and penetration covers to these penetrations.	Comment by reviewer: And penetration covers
	X
	 

	 
	Set Out
	 
	 

	C-1.17
	Set out lines of main building grid lines, two lines in two directions & a datum per floor.
	 
	X

	C-1.18
	The Subcontractor shall satisfy himself as to the correctness of all building elements prior to commencement of Works. Commencement of work is deemed to be acceptance of preceding works.
	X
	 

	C-1.19
	The Subcontractor shall notify the builder of all incorrect set out and site measures 48 hours prior to commencement.
	X
	 

	C-1.20
	The Subcontractor shall allow to site measure all works prior to manufacture or procurement as deemed necessary to successfully execute the works.
	X
	 

	 
	Ceilings
	 
	 

	C-1.21
	Installation of ceiling tiles and access panels to schedule, allowing access for commissioning purposes for an agreed period.
	 
	X

	C-1.22
	Handling of ceiling tiles and access panels outside of scheduled period and replacement of those damaged will be performed by the ceiling & Partitions subcontractor at the Subcontractor’s expense.
	X
	 

	C-1.23
	Coordinate with the ceiling Subcontractor to ensure the installation of the ductworks and diffusers does not affect the integrity of the ceiling system. (i.e. clashes with main runner).
	X
	 

	C-1.24
	Ensure that no cables, duct, pipework, cable ladders/trays and the like are resting on the ceiling grid and tiles.
	X
	 

	 
	Access Panels	Comment by reviewer: This section needs to be clearer. It notes by the Subcontractor but its in the builder column. This should be all by the subcontractor	Comment by reviewer: Cleared up
	 
	 

	C-1.25
	Subcontractor to provide access panel locations for adjustment and maintenance of equipment (on BIM) to the builder for consultants to detail on IFC architectural RCP drawings. 
	X
	 

	C-1.26
	Access openings in ceilings, bulkheads, walls and at other positions to IFC architectural RCP drawings.
	 
	X

	 
	Floors
	 
	 

	C-1.27
	Waterproof floor toppings if required.
	 
	X

	 
	Plinths - MSB/DBs and Electrical Equipment

	C-1.28
	Setout of location, including sizing and securing to floor as required
	X
	 

	C-1.29
	Metal Plinth surrounds, including seismic and vibration isolation.
	X
	 

	C-1.30
	Levelling plinth to suit falls in plant room floor.
	X
	 

	C-1.31
	Concreting of plinth.	Comment by reviewer: Note this now needs to be in the FRP scope. Is there a reason we don’t leave it in the sparky scope and they can engage the concreter?	Comment by reviewer: Metal plinth surrounds by subbie, concreting by concretor	Comment by reviewer: I would think that we can get the concreter to pour the concrete rather than the electrician to bring in a truck from 10ks away to pour a couple of plinths 
	 
	X

	 
	Flashing to all conduits, cable ladders/ trays and cables penetrating building exterior

	C-1.32
	Set out/ detailing.
	X
	 

	C-1.33
	Cutting roof/ exterior cladding (if required).
	 
	X

	C-1.34
	Under flashing.
	 
	X

	C-1.35
	Over flashing.
	X
	 

	C-1.36
	Support from structure.
	 
	X

	 
	Fire and Smoke Rating
	 
	 

	C-1.37
	Provision of fire rated shafts for vertical distribution where detailed.
	 
	X

	C-1.38
	Clear openings (for cable ladders/trays) in walls within schedule to details provided in good time by Subcontractor.
	 
	X

	C-1.39
	Fire and smoke rating of penetrations and cable ladders/trays where required.
	X
	 

	C-1.40
	Sealing of penetrations incl inside conduits & cables as required.
	X
	 

	C-1.42
	Certificate of all fire and smoke penetrations and associated equipment
	X
	 

	 
	Acoustic Rating
	 
	 

	C-1.43
	Provision of acoustic walls & ceilings.
	 
	X

	C-1.44
	Acoustical rating of ductwork and penetrations.
	X
	 

	C-1.45
	Seal Penetrations, incl inside conduits & ladders/trays/cables  as required
	X
	 

	C-1.46
	Clear openings in acoustic walls to details provided by Subcontractor.
	 
	X

	 
	Pipe Sleeves, holding down bolts and the like
	 
	 

	C-1.47
	Supply of components and setout drawings.
	X
	 

	C-1.48
	Building into structure any pre-positioned fittings.
	 
	X

	C-1.49
	Sealing between service, sleeve & penetration.
	X
	 

	C-1.50
	Supply & installation of sleeve.
	X
	 

	 
	Recessed light fittings

	C-1.51
	Supply & installation – Detailed information plus on-ceiling marking of the cut-outs required must be provided to the C&P subcontractor by the Electrical Subcontractor in appropriate time for the C&P subcontractor to provide all the cut-outs (if information is not provided in the appropriate time the cost is by Electrical Subcontractor)- Note: Refer to - General Penetrations etc for Subcontractor's responsibility on penetrations.	Comment by reviewer: Cut out to be set out by the electrical trade then cut by the C&P. If cut to set out and set out wrong sparky pays the cost to re-do or repair if cut wrong C&P fixes their own defect.
	X
	 

	C-1.52
	Cutting of plasterboard.
	 
	X

	C-1.53
	Framing of penetrations.
	 
	X

	 
	Painting
	 
	 

	C-1.54
	Subcontractor’s installation as required / specified.
	X
	 

	C-1.55
	Plant Rooms (Structure Only), general building interiors.
	 
	X

	 
	Plenums / Plantrooms
	 
	 

	C-1.56
	Provision of plant room and/or cupboards constructed of rendered brickwork or set plasterboard walls to the acoustic specification requirements.
	 
	X

	C-1.57
	Acoustic sealing of Subcontractor's penetrations in Plant Rooms and/or cupboards.
	X
	 

	C-1.58
	Provision of permanent service walkways/ steps etc. to allow safe access to Subcontractor's plant, excluding cooling towers.	Comment by reviewer: Permanent – subbies provide all of their own temp access requirements.
	 
	X

	C-1.59
	Provision of acoustic louvres, and screens around Subcontractor's plant. (Excluding specific plant acoustic enclosures eg suction plant in dentist room).
	 
	X

	C-1.60
	Construction of rooms, chambers, or cupboards for the accommodation of the following equipment – electrical plant, mechanical plant, fire plant, hydraulic plant, culverts & cover plates.
	 
	X

	C-1.61
	Pressure testing plenums.
	X
	 

	C-1.62
	Provision of steps and protective covers over Subcontractor items eg conduits to allow safe access to Subcontractor plant.
	X
	 

	 
	Air Sealing of Buildings
	 
	 

	C-1.63
	Buildings sealed as per NCC and Fire Engineering requirements.
	 
	X

	C-1.64
	In addition to the above, SE, TH, DU service areas above cells sealed as per heightened Fire Engineering requirements.
	 
	X

	C-1.65
	For SE, TH, DU service areas above cells, inspections during building construction to visually confirm air sealing is being attended to.
	X
	 

	C-1.66
	Sealing of penetrations to building made by this subcontractor to the achieve the correct building sealing requirements.
	X
	 

	 
	Cooling Towers (Building X21)
	 
	 

	C-1.67
	Provision of columns under cooling towers to elevate base of cooling towers.  
	 
	X

	C-1.68
	Provision of permanent service walkways/steps etc. to allow safe access up to and around cooling towers.	Comment by reviewer: Permanent – subbies to provide their own temp access
	 
	X

	C-1.69
	Lighting of walkways/ step etc.
	X
	 

	 
	General Services
	 
	 

	C-1.70
	General lighting and temporary power for construction purposes.	Comment by reviewer: The builder provide??
	X 
	

	C-1.71
	Water, gas, and electricity for the commissioning and test running of the plant.
	 
	X

	C-1.72
	Task lighting for construction purposes - for Subcontractor's Works.
	X
	 

	C-1.73
	Electricity for the commissioning and test running of the plant using permanent mains power.
	 
	X

	C-1.74
	Temporary generator required for commissioning in the event permanent power is not available.  
	X
	 

	 
	Protection of Equipment
	 
	 

	C-1.75
	Bollards, protection frames, hazard signs & markings protecting ductwork
	X
	 

	C-1.76
	Protection and maintenance of the Subcontractor's work and materials during the contract through to Practical Completion
	X
	 

	 
	Cleaning, Making Good & labelling
	 
	 

	C-1.77
	Making good of all damages to finishes whilst executing the works, to the satisfaction the builder.
	X
	 

	C-1.78
	Cleaning of all elements prior to, during and after installation.
	X
	 

	C-1.79
	Clean all finished products at a time as nominated by the builder.
	X
	 

	C-1.80
	Labelling of all items installed by Subcontractor.
	X
	 

	C-1.81
	Signage on doors to indicate function of room/ cupboard eg Plant room.
	 
	X

	 
	Materials handling
	 
	 

	C-1.83
	Unloading, hoisting and lifting and final positioning of Subcontractor's equipment/ plant/ materials. 	Comment by reviewer: All materials handling is by the subcontractor. We do nothing.	Comment by reviewer: Agreed, changed.
	X
	

	C-1.84
	Monorail beams (if applicable) in accordance with location nominated by Subcontractor.
	 
	X

	C-1.85
	Horizontal movement of materials.
	X
	 

	C-1.86
	Scaffold (fixed or mobile) required by the Subcontractor.
	X
	 

	 
	Earth Works	Comment by reviewer: The builder will provide access stairs and handrails for edge protection. No working platforms except for blocklaying above 3.8m	Comment by reviewer: Too much information, no working platforms for services	Comment by reviewer: Agree
	 
	 

	C-1.87
	Cutting, trenching, backfilling, compacting, and the reinstatement of surfaces and the like to successfully complete the works. Backfilling is to match the CBR of adjacent areas and may require engineered compaction.
	X
	 

	C-1.88
	All earth works are to be fully surveyed with drawings submitted to the builder
	 
	X

	C-1.89
	Responsibility for accuracy of as-built Drawings
	X
	 

	 
	Anti-Vehicle Ramming System (AVRS)
	 
	 

	C-1.90
	Supply and Install complete with rising step, drive cabinet, hydraulic power unit, control panel, control cabling, hydraulic piping.  Provide shop drawings to clearly show AVRS plus defining “associated works”.  Test and commission.
	 
	X

	C-1.91
	Supply and install control and monitoring cabling to the gatehouse comms room and leave tails where directed by the security subcontractor for remote control and monitoring by security operator in the gatehouse main control room.
	X
	 

	 
	Communications to AVRS control Panel
	X
	 

	C-1.92
	Power supply to AVRS control cabinet by electrical trade.
	X
	 

	C-1.93
	All underground conduits for electrical and hydraulics between rising step and drive cabinet by electrical trade.
	X
	 

	C-1.94
	Pit drainage connected to stormwater by Hydraulic trade.
	 
	X

	C-1.95
	Excavation, structural pit and AVRS surrounds integrated into pavement design by structural concrete trade.  Vehicle bollards if required by bollard trade.
	 
	X

	 
	Demolition associated with Visitor Processing Building
	 
	 

	C-1.96
	Dilapidation survey of building complete with report and photo submission to the builder. Identify any concerns.
	X
	 

	C-1.97
	Identifying, labelling, and protecting all plant, cable ladders/trays, cabling and light fittings to be retained. 
	X
	 

	C-1.98
	Identifying, labelling, and protecting all plant, cable ladders/trays, cabling and light fittings to be demolished and removed from site. 
	X
	 

	C-1.99
	Where part of a ladders/tray etc run are to be retained, remove the section of ladders/trays and protect and support the existing section of ladders/trays etc to be retained.
	X
	 

	C-1.100
	Where retaining the existing cabling, the cabling is to be isolated,  removed from the distribution board/s, coiled up. 
	X
	 

	C-1.101
	Remove, clean, store safely (then later reinstate) light fittings to be retained and dust protect light fittings, distribution boards and cables on trays as appropriate for demolition activities in that area.
	X
	 

	C-1.102
	Isolate power on all services equipment to be demolished.
	X
	 

	C-1.103
	Remove concrete plinths from under existing electrical equipment.
	 
	X

	C-1.104
	Remove from Site all items identified to be demolished and removed from site.   
	 
	X

	C-1.105
	Reinstate and certify no longer required penetrations through fire rated walls.
	 
	X

	C-1.106
	Reinstate cladding and roofing over no longer required penetrations through building exterior/ roof.
	 
	X




C-2	Interface Works with Common Services Trench (CST) Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Electrical
	CST

	C-2.01
	Provide ITPs plus all testing, commissioning, photographic records, technical data etc into the Operations and Maintenance manual
	 
	X

	C-2.02
	Leave CST pits/services connections in clean condition.  Provide internal and external photos of each pit and valve prior to any main works subcontractor entering/ using.
	 
	X

	C-2.03
	Just prior to Practical Completion of the Project, at a time agreed with the builder, install tamper-resistant security bolt fixings to pit lids and provide drivers as required to the builder.
	 
	X

	C-2.04
	Inspect pits/services connections before connection and or entry into any pit, noting any concerns. Note:  Pits will remain the responsibility of the CST subcontractor with respect to warranties.
	X
	 

	C-2.05
	Internally clean all pits (regardless of why the pits may have had dirt etc ingress) and make good any damage that may have occurred to any pit accessed by the Subcontractor before the lids are bolted down.   This includes touch-up paint if required on valves.
	X
	 



C-3	Interface Works with Mechanical Services Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Electrical
	Mechanical

	C-3.01
	Supply and installation of all electrical services plant and equipment.
	X
	 

	C-3.02
	Supply and installation of submain supply to MSSBs.
	X
	 

	C-3.03
	Supply and installation of submain supply to each central chiller and AVRS control cubicle (gatehouse).
	X
	 

	C-3.04
	Termination of submain to the mechanical services switchboards (MSSBs) and to central chillers and AVRS cubicle.
	 
	X

	C-3.05
	All wiring from MSSB’s to mech plant including isolators as required.
	 
	X

	C-3.06
	Only where specifically nominated on the Consultant’s design drawings, provision of isolators & electrical supply adjacent to the mechanical plant.
	X
	 

	C-3.07
	Provision of all cable trays, ladders, containment systems for all cabling installed by mechanical subcontractor.
	 
	X

	C-3.08
	Identification of BMS interfaces, interface points and wiring to these interfaces.
	 
	X

	C-3.09
	Cabling from the MSSBs to associated building MDB for connection into the EMS (eg for surge protection status) and into the lighting management system.
	 
	X

	C-3.10
	Terminations in MDB by electrical subcontractor.
	X
	 

	C-3.11
	Precast factory conduit installation by electrical trade to shop drawing mark-ups by all other services trades.  Refer this Scope of Works document section 3 “Precast Elements and Common Cell Riser Main Frames” for more details.
	X
	 

	C-3.12
	BMS interace data outlet adjacent to the mechanical equipment e.g MSSB
	X
	 

	 
	Domestic rangehoods in kitchenettes.

	C-3.13
	Supply and install rangehoods complete with exhaust ducting to above ceiling space.  
	 
	X

	C-3.14
	Liaise with joiner for dimensional and other requirements.
	 
	X

	C-3.15
	Connection of power from the GPO/Isolator  to the rangehood exhaust fan in the ceiling space.  
	 
	X

	C-3.16
	Controls so that rangehood exhaust (to above ceiling space) is control switch in officer post allows.
	X
	 

	 
	New Generator and Existing Generators.

	C-3.17
	Identification of BMS interfaces required.
	X
	 

	C-3.18
	Interface cabling between the BMS panel and the generator control panel and any interface devices required
	X
	 



C-4	Not Used

C-5	Interface Works with Security Services Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Electrical
	Security

	C-5.01
	Supply and installation of reed switches and all security field devices.
	 
	X

	C-5.02
	Supply and installation of electronic security cabinets and equipment in communications rooms plus associated electronic security equipment.
	 
	X

	C-5.03
	Supply and installation of rack in SER/Communication Room 	Comment by reviewer: Added comms rooms for clarity 	Comment by reviewer: Added patch leads and fly leads 
	X
	 

	C-5.04
	Supply and installation of Fibre Optic Infrastructure Cabling
	X
	 

	C-5.05
	Termination of Fibre Optic Infrastructure Cabling and every fibre core for every fibre optic cabling the Electrical Subcontractor are installing
	X
	

	C-5.06
	Cabling to all security devices/equipment
	 
	X

	C-5.07
	Termination to all security devices/equipment including patch leads and fly leads
	 
	X

	C-5.08
	The Electrical Subcontractor is to install all cable ladders and trays for the security services, as documented.
	X
	

	C-5.09
	Where the Security subcontractor is providing their own cabling, they will be responsible for the cable management from the cable ladder to their device. eg. catenary.
	
	X



C-6 Interface Works with ICT Services Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Electrical
	ICT

	C-6.01
	Supply and installation of all active equipment installed in data racks except where specifically nominated otherwise.
	 
	X

	C-6.02
	Establish VLANs.
	 
	X

	C-6.03
	Nominate IP addresses.
	 
	X

	C-6.04
	Provide full infrastructure interconnectivity between nominated data outlets.
	 
	X

	C-6.05
	GPS NTP server for communications systems
	 
	X

	C-6.06
	Supply & installation of communication data points 
	X
	 

	C-6.07
	Supply and installation of fly and patch leads 	Comment by reviewer: added fly 
	X
	 

	C-6.08
	Supply and installation of ALL fibre and copper infrastructure cabling between each communications room/ cupboard.
	X
	 

	C-6.09
	Supply and installation of all data racks, fully dressed, including earthing plus all patch panels and FOBOTs installed in data racks – ready for ICT subcontractor to install active equipment.
	X
	 

	C-6.10
	All data cable and fibre terminations in comms rooms/ cupboards from outside that room/ cupboard plus associated labelling.
	X
	 

	C-6.11
	Supply and installation of LMS and EMS servers which are to be installed where directed by ICT subcontractor; Servers to meet requirements stipulated by ICT subcontractor.
	X
	 



C-7	Interface Works with Fire Detection/ Protection Services Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Electrical
	Fire

	C-7.01
	Supply and installation of all fire services electronic plant and equipment, sprinkler systems, fire protection systems and devices.
	 
	X

	C-7.02
	Supply and installation of fire services field devices, data gathering panels and associated wiring.
	 
	X

	C-7.03
	Provision of 240v wiring to FIP and SFIP.
	X
	 

	C-7.04
	Termination within of 240 power cable  at FIP/SFIP.  
	 X	Comment by reviewer: termination by electrical not fire
	X

	C-7.05
	Deluge discharge test in secure wing and DU cells.
	

	X

	C-7.06
	Protection of own Works in preparation for the deluge discharge test.
	X	Comment by reviewer: this should be greyed out not the hydraulics side
	



C-8	Interface Works with Hydraulics Services Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Electrical
	Hydraulics

	C-8.01
	Supply and installation of hydraulics control panels.
	 
	X

	C-8.02
	Supply and installation of emergency eye wash and showers. 
	 
	X

	C-8.03
	Supply and install Water Management System.
	 
	X

	C-8.04
	Provision of data outlets for Water Management system.
	X
	X

	C-8.05
	Provision of wiring from MSB/ DB to each hydraulic control panel plus terminating cables.  Provision of power outlets and isolators to all other plant.  If isolator provided, terminate cable tails provided with equipment to isolator.
	X
	 

	C-8.06
	Provision of Water and Gas meter.
	 
	X

	C-8.07
	Supply and installation of conduits and cabling to Water and Gas Meters including terminations.
	X
	 

	C-8.08
	Supply and Installation of Energy Metering System.
	X
	 





C-9	Interface Works with Kitchen and Laundry Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Electrical
	Kitchen / Laundry

	 
	Set-up of Kitchen and Laundry and Café contract

	C-9.01
	Separate Kitchen/ Laundry specification and drawings produced by specialist Kitchen and Laundry Consultant (FSDA).   The café in the visits building also forms part of the FSDA scope.
	 
	X

	C-9.02
	All interfaces with other trades to be documented by FSDA to match those within the main works contracts.
	 
	X

	C-9.03
	All Services trades (Mechanical, Electrical, Fire, Hydraulics, Communications/ Security) are the same services trades for delivery of the main building and Kitchen/ Laundry associated fit-out interface services works.
	Note
	 

	C-9.04
	Coordination of kitchen/ Laundry fit-out BIM design etc to match that of the main works with Mechanical subcontractor to be lead.  FSDA and subcontractor to be involved.  FSDA to be involved in shop drawing review process.
	Note
	 

	C-9.05
	Supply and installation of kitchen/ Laundry equipment by Kitchen/ Laundry subcontractor to be as nominated on the FSDA drawings and as below In this table). 
	 
	X

	C-9.06
	Final test and commissioning of the kitchen and laundry equipment, fixtures and fittings as nominated by FSDA.
	 
	X

	C-9.07
	Kitchen/ Laundry subcontractor to provide Form 16 for installation works they were responsible for.
	 
	X

	C-9.08
	Supply and installation of all cabling, Isolators, Power Outlets 
	X
	 

	C-9.09
	Supply and installation of all cabling between the isolations and the power outlets
	X
	 

	C-9.10
	Supply and installation of all communications cabling and field outlets
	X
	 

	C-9.11
	Supply and installation of fly and patch lead/s between fielddata outlet and the device	Comment by reviewer: added patch leads and field
	X
	 



C-10	Interface Works with Waste Water Treatment Plant Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Electrical
	WWTP

	C-10.01
	Set-up of WWTP contract is for a packaged Design and Construct.
	Note
	 

	C-10.02
	Supply and install electrical power infrastructure cabling.
	X
	 

	C-10.03
	Supply and installation of the WWTP MSB.
	 
	X

	C-10.04
	Termination of electrical submains.
	X
	 

	C-10.05
	Supply and installation of fibre optic infrastructure network cabling.
	X
	 

	C-10.06
	Supply and installation of communications rack/s.
	X
	 

	C-10.07
	Provision of a data point by communications trade (for connection into BMS) in a location to be agreed with the builder and WWTP subcontractor.
	X
	 

	C-10.08
	Provision of all F/O and Cu patch/fly leads 
	X
	



C-10	Interface Works with Existing Plant
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Electrical
	Existing Plant

	C-11.01
	Supply and installation of submains to hydraulics panels
	X
	 

	C-11.02
	Supply and installation of submains to fire panels
	X
	 

	C-11.03
	Termination of all electrical cables into field hydraulics and fire panels
	X
	 

	C-11.04
	Provision of a data point by communications trade (for connection into BMS) in a location to be agreed with the builder and fire subcontractor.
	X
	 

	C-11.05
	Provision of all F/O and Cu patch/fly leads 
	X
	










































Appendix D Principal’s Requirements for Completion Testing at the project
The attached flowchart has extracted from Volume 4 of the Main Contract.


Appendix E Demarcation Schedule
Electrical/Communications | ICT | Security
Note: ‘X’ indicates responsible party.
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Electrical / Comms
	ICT / Security

	E-1.00
	Early Works
	 
	 

	E-1.01
	Connections and coordination to other services and the like.
	X
	 

	E-2.00
	Communications Package
	 
	 

	E-2.01
	The remainder of the site wide pit and conduits reticulation around the site between buildings, including interfacing into the common services trench pits and conduits installed as part of the early works.
	X
	 

	E-2.02
	Communications conduit to all the external end points devices.
	X
	 

	E-2.03
	All backbone Infrastructure cabling between buildings for all ICT networks (SCN, PSN, ESN, PN, etc).
	X
	 

	E-2.04
	All ICT Network and Communications Racks including ancillary equipment and room fit outs.
	X
	 

	E-2.05
	All horizontal communications cabling for all ICT networks (PSN, ESN, PN, etc) including AV cabling within the buildings.
	X
	 

	E-2.06
	All cable management and enclosure within the buildings to accommodate all the above cabling.
	X
	 

	E-2.07
	Termination plates and fit off all the communications cabling (both ends).
	X
	 

	E-2.08
	All IPTV cabling reticulation, TVs to be mounted within enclosures (enclosures to be provided as part of sheet metal package).
	X
	 

	E-2.09
	All Active network equipment for the ESN network.
	 
	X

	E-2.10
	Prisoner telephone system cabling and rack Provision for fit off and fit out (by others).
	X
	 

	E-2.11
	GPS NTP server for communications systems.
	 
	X

	E-2.12
	Testing & Commissioning of all communications cabling and all other systems provided by the Electrical and Communications Subcontractor.
	X
	 

	E-2.13
	As constructed drawings, manuals, asset management etc.
	X
	X

	E-2.14
	Surge protection for externally mounted devices including connections to the lightning protection earths (earth bars provided by Electrical and Communications Subcontractor).
	X
	 

	E-2.15
	All patch and fly  leads and Fibre patch leads for the communications, security and IT systems.
	X
	 

	E-2.16
	ELV power supplies for communications equipment.
	X
	 

	E-2.17
	Any pit runs from the main runs to specific electronic security items of equipment items within the centre external to buildings (e.g. external MDAS poles, external camera poles, TWF sensor posts, MFD PMs, external monitored/ controlled gates in fences, etc).
	
	X

	E-2.18
	Cable support and cable enclosure within the buildings for all security equipment and cabling.
	X
	

	E-2.19
	If any additional cabling, not structured cabling.
	
	X

	E-2.20
	Termination and fit off of all security equipment and cabling (see item E-2.20).
	
	X

	E-2.21
	Active network equipment for the SCN network including the SCN NMS.
	
	X

	E-2.22
	GPS NTP server for SCN.
	
	X

	E-2.23
	Testing & commissioning of security & ICT equipment.
	
	X

	E-2.24
	ELV power supplies for electronic security equipment.
	
	X


























Appendix F Scope Gap Items





