99	AS 2545—1993
1	AS 2545—1993

SCHEDULE 1A 	- SCOPE OF WORKS

1. SCOPE OF WORKS 
1.1 GENERAL
The Scope of Works comprises the Hydraulic Services to the project as defined and in accordance with the requirements of:
1. This Scope of Works;
1. Subcontract Documents; and
1. The Subcontract and Schedules.
Unless specifically excluded herein.
Unless noted otherwise, the Scope of Works is to allow for the provision of all preliminaries, labour (1 labour assistant person per 14 trades personnel, or part thereof), supervision, materials, tools, plant, equipment, insurances and sundry items for the supply, documentation (e.g. shop drawings, O&M, QA etc.), design finalisation, installation, manufacture, transport and satisfactory completion of the Subcontract Works in accordance with the Subcontract Documents, all relevant statutory codes, codes of practice, Australian Standards and the National Construction Code (NCC).
For avoidance of doubt, the Scope of Works includes all items described in the Hydraulic Services Specifications as well as items listed, nominated, implied and/or shown on the Drawings and Other Documents relating to the Works unless specifically excluded herein. 
All requirements of the Subcontract Documents, including but not limited to the Drawings and Specifications, are included in the Subcontractor Sum, regardless of whether specifically identified in the pricing schedule, unless specifically identified as an exclusion.
References to the “Hydraulics Subcontractor” or “services subcontractors” contained within this Scope of Works are to be interpreted as references to the Subcontractor.
References to the “Tenderer”, “Contractor”, “Builder” or the like contained in the Subcontract Documents, for the purposes of the Works, are to be interpreted as references to the Subcontractor.
In certain instances, there will be more than one subcontractor assigned to a Trade Package and as such, the builder reserves the right to add or remove to or from the Scope of Works of any subcontract package at its discretion.

1.2 OVERVIEW
This Scope of Works is to be read in conjunction with the Project Conditions which forms Schedule #1B of the Subcontract Agreement. The extent of the Works shall include, but not be limited to, all the following sections:
(a) Design;
(b) General requirements;
(c) Trade Specific;
(d) Completion Requirements;
(e) Subcontract Documents;
(f) Pricing Schedule;
(g) Programming Requirements;
(h) Appendix A - Common Cell Riser Main Frame (CCRMF);
(i) Appendix B - Design Responsibility Matrix;
(j) Appendix C - Building Works/Interface Responsibility Matrix; and
(k) Appendix D - Principals Requirements for Completion Testing at the project.

2. DESIGN
2.1 General
The Works shall include for the design, finalisation obligations and engineering of the Hydraulic Services. Allow for the finalisation of the design and coordination with all other trades for in building and under slab. The Drawings and Specifications illustrate the design intent of the Works. Design finalisation shall include but not be limited to;
(a) Review and confirmation of final design, duct, pump size and pipe size calculations, to confirm that they are suitable for compliance with the Specification, and relative to the proposed requirements;
(b) Final selection of all materials and equipment in accordance with the Subcontract Documents which will be subject to review and approval by the consultant, the builder, and the Principal;
(c) Details of pit quantity and typical pit details for each pit type; 
(d) Layout drawings including routing with accuracy as required for coordination purposes;
(e) Details of interfaces with other services;
(f) Coordination with other services, to ensure all architectural, structural, civil and services items have been considered when completing the shop drawings;
(g) Hazardous zone compliance definition and design for flammable store and chemical store if nominated on hydraulic Drawings;
(h) The Subcontractor shall produce all design and documentation necessary to adequately and clearly document the Works including but not limited to drawings, 3D models, specifications, schedules, sketches, models, calculations, reports, workshop drawings and the like;
(i) The Subcontractor shall progress the design of the Works so as not to cause delay to the Construction Programme or to the work of other contractors;
(j) The Subcontractor will attend regular design meetings, workshops and reviews as required by the builder in a location determined by the builder;
(k) Plant and equipment layouts, sizing’s and dimensions, including provisions for maintenance access; 
(l) Confirmation that all spatial and clearance requirements are adequate;
(m) Duct and pipe sizing and quantity layouts, distribution systems, equipment, spatial allocation, final coordination with all other building elements and trades;
(n) Reproduction of all hydraulic single line diagrams and schematics by verification of system performance and capacities prior production of shop drawings; 
(o) Panel/ plant drawings and details;
(p) Whilst the Subcontractor is required to design to all performance and legislative requirements, design finalisation shall not entail the reduction of scope from that of the preliminary design intent (such as reducing sizes, capacities, aesthetics) without prior written approval from the builder; 
(q) The Subcontractor shall name shop drawings, models files and other documents file names and drawing numbers according to the project document naming convention;
(r) Confirmation that all selected materials and equipment are adequate for its intended use;
(s) Construction details;
(t) Production of coloured hydraulic services PDF control drawings for approval in shaded/fully rendered duct and pipe appearance;
(u) Production of fully dimensioned penetration drawings for all structural slabs/walls and full height walls;
(v) Coordination, review, and finalisation of the BIM model; 
(w) Shop drawings which must be submitted to and approved by the builder, six weeks prior to fabrication or construction commencement;
(x) Labelling methodology and schedule;
(y) Input of data for Facility Maintenance register within the Operations and Maintenance manual of all assets that exceed $____ in value or are a mechanical device that requires periodical maintenance (excel spreadsheet to be provided periodically);
(z) Production of fully dimensioned fire collar, damper and fire penetration register;
(aa) As built and as constructed survey. As-built documents are to be provided progressively to the satisfaction of the builder, no later than a week after Substantial Completion of each building, or for infrastructure, no later than a week after Substantial Completion of the neighbourhood or site;
(ab) Any alterations made to the For Construction drawings and site alterations must be captured within the model and as-built documentation;
(ac) In circumstances where the Subcontractor provides engineering input and value management into the design, the Subcontractor acknowledges that any associated change in design which impacts the Subcontractor's existing Scope of Works has been contemplated and allowed for. The Subcontractor further acknowledges that is has advised the builder of any related impact on other contractors; and
(ad) Finalisation of the following;
(i) Pipe size calculation (sewer, potable water, recycled water, inground fire and stormwater);
(ii) Pump size calculations;
(iii) Hot Water balancing valve calculations;
(iv) Air release valve calculations; and
(v) Grease trap and cooling chamber calculations.
2.2 Digital Engineering Requirements (BIM)
(a) Engage with the builder, consultants, and other contractors to deliver the Digital Engineering 
process;
(b) Design and document in accordance with the current version of the Digital Engineering Management Plan (DEMP) document ____;
(c) The Subcontractor will be supplied the latest model produced by the consultants to assist with their coordination and production of modelling and shop drawings. No responsibility will be taken by the builder for the quality of the model provided;
(d) Produce models in compliance with the LOD Matrix contained within the Digital Engineering Management Plan. When discussing Level of Development, the Digital Engineering Management Plan refers to the latest LOD Specification produced by BIMForum. The Subcontractor shall familiarise themselves with this document. For simplicity, it can be assumed;
(i) Shop Drawings - LOD400; and
(ii) As-Builts – LOD400;
(e) Update model to reflect any issued variations, changes in design or constructability issues. Changes to be captured in the model and on drawings within two weeks of receipt of notification;
(f) Provide a suitably qualified Project team capable of undertaking the design, modelling and coordination process;
(g) Provide an organisation chart identifying the proposed Project structure and governance, including Digital Engineering roles (BIM Lead, Model Authors etc.);
(h) Training of the Subcontractor in the use of software to develop the 3D model to meet the Project requirement is the responsibility of the builder. The Subcontractor will be supplied the builder's Capability and Capacity Form, ‘document ____’ and the Subcontractor is to return this form with their Tender submission. The builder's Digital Engineering leads will organise a presentation so this Subcontractor can demonstrate their capability and capacity;
(i) The intention is to create a fully coordinated model in two stages in accordance with the Construction Programme;
(i) Combined services in ground route and local discipline specific routes;
(ii) Buildings including inground reticulation from external to internal;
(j) The BIM federated services model will be used to coordinate and create the coordinated ceiling plans in conjunction with the Architect. The Subcontractor is to show all access panel requirements including location of ceiling access panels; and
(k) The Subcontractor shall only work in Autodesk Revit (release as specified in the Digital Engineering Management Plan) and must have an active BIM360 subscription. No other format will be acceptable.
2.3 Lead Coordinator Roles
For the purposes of coordination, the lead subcontractor for each element will be as follows;
(a) The Mechanical subcontractor shall be lead for BIM coordination for above slab Building services;
(b)  The Mechanical subcontractor shall be the lead for all works and layouts within plant rooms. The Architect shall provide a shell for the Mechanical subcontractor to finalise plant layouts, floor waste locations, electrical switchboard locations within plant room etc;
(c) The Communications subcontractor is required to provide all rack, cable and communications equipment layouts for each communications room and cupboard to the Mechanical subcontractor. The Mechanical subcontractor shall then assume the lead role for these areas;
(d) The Hydraulics Subcontractor shall be regarded as lead trade for BIM coordination for below slab and inground services;
(e) The Hydraulics Subcontractor shall be regarded as lead trade for design coordination then off-site prefabrication, delivery to site then installation of the Common Cell services risers main frames;    
(f) The Mechanical subcontractor is to develop and be responsible for the fire matrix plus be the lead in all fire matrix testing (except for the Gate House SER). This includes warm smoke testing in nominated locations. For the Gate House SER gas discharge system, the Fire Protection subcontractor is to develop and be responsible for the fire matrix, including being the lead for all associated fire matrix testing;
(g) The Mechanical Subcontractor is to be responsible for confirming scope of BMS interfaces with other contractors, type of interfaces and proving their operation. This will require a BMS operator to be present to confirm BMS interface operability when other contractors test their systems; and
(h) The Electrical subcontractor is to develop and be responsible for the testing and commissioning procedures and time program works associated with the new 11kV generator synchronising with the existing HV generators and HV network. Testing will involve power outages and all services subcontractors will be required to be in attendance of all test to confirm the operation of their respective systems and plant under various scenarios. The Electrical subcontractor will conduct as many power outages required during the testing, client witness testing and commissioning phases to satisfy both the builder and the Client that the standby generator power system is functioning in accordance with the project requirements. 

3. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
3.1 General
(a) Where there is a discrepancy within the Subcontract Documents, the Subcontractor shall ensure they have allowed all cost and compliance with the most onerous condition;
(b) The labour structure set-up on site used as a basis for creating the Construction Programme is that the builder and all trades will be dedicated to one of the following areas:
(i) Construction Group 1 – Secure buildings
(ii) Construction Group 2 – Residential buildings
(iii) Construction Group 3 – All other buildings (commonly named as “Support buildings”)
(iv) Construction group 4 – Site wide works
(c) The Construction Programme assumes that all activities – design, through construction and through commissioning and handover all have independent team structures for each of the above groups. This structure will be reflected in all activities e.g. Design co-ordination meetings and on-site subcontractor meetings;  
(d) Obvious work: Work of an obvious nature may not be documented. Any item or method of construction which is usual and proper, but not specifically mentioned shall be deemed to be included in the Works;
(e) Items shown on the drawings but not specified or vice versa shall be deemed to be included in the Works;
(f) The Subcontractor shall progress and complete the Works in accordance with (or earlier than) the Construction Programme;
(g) The Subcontractor shall allow for all out of sequence works and return visits necessary to complete the Works;
(h) The Subcontractor shall comply with all the builder Management Plans to the furthest extent they are applicable to the Works;
(i) The Subcontractor shall ensure compliance with the On-site Steel Welding Procedure;
(j) The Subcontractor shall allow for all return visits to co-ordinate the Works around penetrations formed by others;
(k) The Subcontractor shall co-ordinate and co-operate with the builder and all Other Contractors during the course of the Works;
(l) The Subcontractor shall use the document management system for all project communication, document control and transfer of information;  
(m) The Subcontractor shall allow for compliance with all Statutory Requirements and Approvals including the conditions and requirements attached to any Approval and compliance with the requirements of all relevant approving authorities to the furthest extent they are relevant to the Works, including and fees and costs associated (unless specifically excluded);
(n) The Subcontractor shall provide all survey and set out required for the Works.  Should the Subcontractor adopt set-out performed by others, the Subcontractor shall remain responsible for its accuracy;
(o) The Subcontractor shall be responsible for the protection of the Works until the Date of Substantial Completion;
(p) The Subcontractor must submit to the builder for approval, proposed products or materials to be utilised for temporary protection of the Works, prior to use. Approval by the builder will not negate the Subcontractor’s responsibility for any damage caused to the Works by use of those products or materials;
(q) The Subcontractor shall remove all installed temporary protection measures upon completion of the Works and leave the Works clean and free from any defects;
(r) The Subcontractor shall allow for the final trade cleaning of the Works;
(s) The Subcontractor shall ensure that all materials and fixings are suitable for use with those materials they come in contact with to eliminate corrosion or any other reaction caused by dissimilar metals; 
(t) The Subcontractor shall allow for the supply and installation of non-pick caulking and bedding to their installed items, where nominated on the Drawings or Specification;
(u) The Subcontractor shall protect adjoining works of other contractors;
(v) The Subcontractor shall be deemed to have inspected site and to have fully informed itself of the nature of the work under the Main Contract and the Subcontract;
(w) The Subcontractor is required to comply with obligations under the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Engagement Strategy, and provide the necessary framework to achieve a minimum of 3% inclusion for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in the area of employment;
(x) The Subcontractor has allowed for all site measurements, setting out and levelling their work as required; 
(y) It is the responsibility of the Subcontractor to ensure that they are working off the current Drawings, Specifications, and other documents, and to ensure that they highlight any discrepancies or missing information that may exist. No claim for additional costs or extension of time will be considered because of the Subcontractor’s oversight in drawing amendment or planning;
(z) The Subcontractor shall provide fire sealing of all services penetrations that breach a dedicated fire barrier with a product approved by the builder. The Subcontractor will provide a fire penetration register for each building and third party certification (by a builder approved certifier) of the product used and the installation; 
(aa) If there is a conflict within the documents forming the Subcontract, it shall be deemed that the Subcontractor has allowed for the higher specification;
(ab) Seismic design signed off by third party registered structural engineer and installation of required restraints as required by the Specification and standards;
(ac) Exposed pipework/conduit in prisoner accessible areas is not permitted. However, if an exemption is granted, pipework/conduits are to be provided with metal shrouds (minimum 3mm stainless sheet metal with security fixings) to eliminate any contraband being hidden/ stored or reduced the potential for a ligature point; 
(ad) Subcontractor to ensure they familiarise themselves with the structural drawings when tendering. The construction of suspended slabs varies across the site between insitu (traditional), bondek and precast base. It will be assumed that the subcontractor has made all necessary allowances for these differing construction methods;
(ae) the builder is required to undertake a metal detection survey of the Site at various stages of the Project, to verify that there is no risk of buried metal objects being present at Practical Completion. The Subcontractor shall ensure that all metal objects (such as nails, screws, corrugated iron etc) are either disposed of in the waste bins provided, or removed from Site. Further to this, the Subcontractor is to carry out a clean sweep of its work front on a daily basis to ensure no metal objects remain. The Subcontractor is to ensure that this requirement is clearly communicated with its employees and secondary subcontractors. In the event that the Subcontractor fails to complete this task, the builder will carry this out on the Subcontractor's behalf and associated costs will be back charged to the Subcontractor; 
(af) The Subcontractor must supply and install mounting plates for corrugated profiles where installing fixtures against corrugated walls and ceilings, in accordance with all requirements of the Commonality of Engineering Services;
(ag) The Subcontractor is responsible for the satisfactory removal of any marking paint they apply as part of the set out for their works. Additional care is to be taken to minimise or eliminate the use of spray paint on substrates to receive future vinyl finishes; and
(ah) The Subcontractor is required to provide routine hydraulic maintenance of the Site accommodation. This scope is to include monthly visual inspections of sewer pump stations, cleaning and replacement of seals, general cleaning plus reporting of inspections and works done  
3.2 Interface with Works Already let at the project
An early works contract has been let for the Combined Services Trench (CST) around the Site perimeter.  The CST subcontractor’s responsibilities included provision of data including all test results and CCTV survey of all infrastructure installed within the CST into the electronic operation and maintenance manuals for the Hydraulics Subcontractor to review. As part of this Scope of Works, the Subcontractor is to allow to connect to the CST works, and integrate all CST scope within any testing/ commissioning activities required.  The Subcontractor is required to check the integrity/ test results/ CCTV survey of all CST installation works including inspection of cleanliness inside pipes before integration with new works. All associated costs to be included within this Subcontract. Upon connection to the CST, the Subcontractor is deemed to have fully accepted the condition of the service and its extension to the Site. The integrity of the CST works shall remain the responsibility of the CST subcontractor.
3.3 Survey set out and as-builts
0. The Subcontractor shall allow for the services survey set out for all pits, pipes, bends, valves etc to facilitate the installation of their service;
0. Site recording of installed inground services, for the sole purpose of as-builts, will be carried out by the Managing Contractor’s surveyor. This includes the following however excludes below building slab services;
1. Pipe invert and location; 
1. Pit invert, surface level and location; and
1. Fire hydrants;
0. The Subcontractor is responsible for ensuring full coordination with the Managing Contractor’s surveyor to ensure all inground works are surveyed, prior to back filling or covering or closing of pits. Any cost associated with re-surveying works by the Managing Contactor’s Surveyor due to a lack of coordination by the Subcontractor will be charged to the Subcontractor. This does not limit the responsibility of the Subcontractor in any way and recording of as-built information remains the full responsibility of the Subcontractor; and
0. Site recording of all remaining services installed by the Subcontractor is the responsibility of the Subcontractor.
3.4 Excavation
(a) All trenching, excavation, vacuum excavation (where required by the builder permits), rock breaking, bedding, backfilling, and compaction to be to be in accordance with the Civil Specification; 
(b) Allow for the existing ground conditions – refer to the Geotechnical Report;
(c) Removal of all excess spoil from Site to locations approved by the builder. All spoil removal is to be tracked and recorded, with records provided to the builder for review upon request.; 
(d) Excavation to facilitate the installation of pipes, pits, valves, pumps stations, warning tape etc. for the permanent installation as detailed; 
(e) Any pipe laid within the Hydraulics services trench that may be impacted upon by UV exposure or climatic conditions, must be covered over with 300mm bedding material to protect the pipe until such time as the trench is back filled and compacted in accordance with the Civil Specification.  Additionally, other Hydraulic service pipes not effected by UV exposure or climatic conditions will be ‘weighed down’ by sandbags, spot filling or similar, until such time as the services trench is back filled in accordance with the Civil Specification;
(f) Ensure where excavations cross any temporary roads and or paths they are reinstated to the same quality and condition, including compaction standard, prior to the excavation;
(g) Provide trench dewatering as required;
(h) Supply and installation of all approved imported material for back filling the excavated works as required by the Civil Specification;
(i) Installation of underground pipework to be as per the Potable Water Reticulation Management Handbook (document ____), the manufacturers instructions and or the engineering Specification to which ever document has the most onerous outcome;
(j) Installation of warning tape for all in ground services. Tape to match that installed by the CST trade and contain trace wire, brought up to the associated pit;
(k) Protection and ongoing maintenance of in ground services that extend above ground; 
(l)  Where in ground connections are to be connected to above ground services, they shall rise up at their exact location and be capped ready for above ground connection at a later stage;
(m) Allow for all ground conditions including rock.
3.5 Pits and Pit Lid Security
(a) Pit lid fixings: Pit lids for all services are to be secured by the same type of tamper-resistant security bolt fixing. The Subcontractor shall allow a minimum of two tamper-resistant security bolt fixings per pit lid and/ or grate. Bolt types can range from M10, M12 and M16 with a common head sizing of 19 mm which shall be rebated into lid to finish flush with pit surface. The tamper-resistant security bolts shall not be installed until final pit clean and commission.  the builder shall, in conjunction with the Subcontractor and other service subcontractors, develop common head pattern type which will be used across the Site. The Subcontractor shall allow to provide a minimum of 10% of total tamper-resistant security bolt numbers/types as spares, and a minimum of three master key sockets to the builder, a minimum of six weeks prior to the Date for Substantial Completion Type to be as advised by the builder;
(b)  Anti-tamper fixings: Any fixings accessible from above with the pit lid closed, for example directional arrows, are to be of the anti-tamper type. The head type of the fixings is to be as directed by the builder;
(c) Provision of pit drainage into stormwater. Subcontractor to allow for all mechanical, electrical and communications pits to be drained to the stormwater infrastructure, Drawings to be updated to reflect this. The Subcontractor has allowed the following quantities (including 4,812 lineal metres of solid drawn uPVC pipe installed to service);
(i) 199 communications pits;
(ii) 585 electrical pits; and
(iii) 18 mechanical pits;
(d) Comply with the Project Labelling Strategy, which applies to all pits; and  
(e) Subcontractor to supply three sets of proprietary pit lid lifters (proprietary or alike) for hand over to the builder prior to Substantial Completion, for free issue to the facilities manager.
3.6 CCTV
CCTV works are to be subcontracted to a company specialising in providing CCTV surveys.
(a) The Subcontractor shall CCTV all main sewer and stormwater runs at the following stages;
(i) 1 week after installation; and
(ii) 4 weeks prior to Substantial Completion of the Works;
(b) Deliverables shall be as follows;
(i) Cover report with summary of findings;
(ii) PDF indicating line numbers to match CCTV recording; and
(iii) CCTV recording on a USB jump drive and uploaded to the builder O&M Manuals platform.

3.7 In-slab conduits, Voids and Photographic Records Required
(a) It is a builder safety requirement that no conduits are be installed in-slab unless there is no alternative. If an in-slab conduit must be installed, conduit(s) must be kept as short as possible and must be shown on the associated as-built drawing; and
(b) During construction, voids with services are to be photographed and catalogued prior to sealing as well as locations of any services or conduits with slabs prior to pouring. All Inspection and Test Plans (ITPs) are to include this scope. All photos are to be added into the O&M manuals, complete with drawing(s) mark-up of where photos were taken, and photo file names suitably cross referenced with drawing(s) plus providing date taken. System to be approved by the builder with all files and photos available for audit at any time.
3.8 Precast Elements and Common Cell Riser Main Frames
(a) There will be up to three precast subcontractors for walls and suspended slabs – one per work area. Each precast subcontractor will produce shop drawings based off the model provided. The Subcontractor is required to review all precast shop drawings and mark up its service requirements. More complicated elements may require several reviews as precasting will not proceed until the associated workshop drawing(s) are comment free:
(i) The three precast factories will be in the region with the suppliers yet to be determined;   
(ii) The Electrical subcontractor is responsible for the supply and installation of all standard conduits and J-boxes to be installed in the precast elements for electrical, communications, security, mechanical, fire and hydraulics services. The Electrical subcontractor will use the respective subcontractor’s documentation for the installation and will not be responsible for any errors or omissions by other trades on the Drawings. Also;
i. If any nontypical backing boxes (eg intercoms, door release buttons) are to be installed, these are to be supplied free of charge by the associated trade to the Electrical subcontractor for installation;
ii. If nontypical conduit radius bends (eg. data cabling) are required, this must be detailed on the precast workshop drawing(s) plus bends are to be supplied free of charge by the associated trade to the Electrical trade for installation;
(iii) The Hydraulics Subcontractor is responsible for the supply and installation of all hydraulic pipes (not conduits) to be installed in the precast elements for hydraulics services;
(iv) The Subcontractor is required to attend the precast factory as and when scheduled by the precast manufacturer.  This may involve out of normal hours work; 
(v) The Precast subcontractor will be responsible for all block outs and will not be responsible for any errors or omissions on the drawings relating to any services trade; and
(vi) Refer to the Construction Programme for precast works. The factory precasting program will not be delayed due to lack of input from the Subcontractor; and
(b) The Subcontractor shall be present during all concrete pours, both on Site and at the precast yard, to ensure any cast in items installed by the Subcontractor remain in position during the concrete pour. The Subcontractor will be responsible for any rectification works due to items not being installed in accordance with the drawings, moving out of position, or becoming damaged or blocked during the concrete pour process;
(c) For the prefabricated Common Cell riser main frames, a prototype assembly is to be design coordinated then fabrication completed for approval by the builder before mass production begins. Refer to Appendix A of this Scope of Works for further details;
(d) All on Site coring for penetrations required by the Subcontractor, to be completed by the Subcontractor. Responsibility for staining of fair faced precast panels and clean-up by the Subcontractor; and
(e) On site coring only accepted for penetration NB 50 diameter and under.
3.9 Sheath Colours for Power Cabling, Patch Leads and Fly leads
(a) The sheath colours of all cables to be used on Site is to comply with the Commonality of Engineering Services; and
(b) As part of the sample submission process, sheath colour is to be nominated by the Subcontractor. For power cables, once a sheath colour is nominated for use, no change in colour will be accepted. 
3.10 Drilling, Coring and Cutting of Concrete
Drilling, Coring and Cutting of the building structure has the potential to impact both the building structural integrity and cast in services pathways (conduits). In order to ensure this does not occur, the Subcontractor is to work in accordance with the Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Procedure, which involves the use of a Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Permit. 
Following is a summary of the Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Procedure, however the Subcontractor must ensure it is familiar with the full procedure which is located within the Subcontractor HSE Pack. Should the Subcontractor fail to work in accordance with the Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Procedure, and this results in damage to conduits or cables, the Subcontractor will be back charged for the costs incurred in identifying and rectifying the damage. 
Should the Subcontractor fail to follow the process summarised at 3.10.1 below prior to the energisation of Buildings, they will be required to follow the process summarised at 3.10.2 for all Buildings at both stages.
3.10.1 Prior to Energization of Buildings
Prior to the energisation of a Building, the following process applies to Drilling, Coring and Cutting within that Building;
(a) Task Risk Assessments (TRAs) are to be updated and require the use of a concrete scanning device that has the ability to detect cast in conduits, such as a proprietary concrete scanning detection device;
(b) Drilling, coring and cutting can occur once the area to be penetrated is scanned and deemed free of cast in conduits;
(c) The Subcontractor must nominate a responsible competent person to manage the task, that is trained in the use of the scanning device;
(d) the builder are to clearly delineate temporary “Live” cast in-situ services, TRAs are to consider cast in services and deal with the delineated zones. These zones are “exclusion zones” for penetrations. Prior to any drilling, coring and cutting in an exclusion zone, the Subcontractor must complete the current Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Permit and gain approval from the builder; and
(e) the builder will ensure that cast in temporary services are only present in in-ground slabs, all other temporary electrical services will be surface mounted and highlighted via the use of temporary electrical tagging i.e yellow tape.
3.10.2 Post Energization of Buildings
Upon energisation of a Building, the following process applies to that Building;
(a) the builder will communicate to all subcontractors when a building is about to be energised. This will typically align with commissioning of the Building, i.e once most penetrations have occurred;
(b) the builder will advertise the energized state of a building at each main entry point to the building and via regular updates at pre-start meetings and project notice boards; and
(c) The Subcontractor must complete the Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Permit for all penetrations.

4. TRADE SPECIFIC
The following is an overview of items that are expected to be supplied by the Subcontractor in accordance with the Subcontract Documents. This is in no way intended to be an exhaustive list. 
The Scope of Works includes but is not limited to the design finalisation, supply, and installation to facilitate the complete Hydraulic Services installation as shown on the Drawings and Specification. Items shall include but not limited to the following:
(a) Temporary Works;
(b) Sanitary Plumbing and Drainage;
(c) Tradewaste Plumbing and Drainage;
(d) Stormwater Plumbing and Drainage;
(e) Potable Water / Water Management;
(f) Recycled/ Fire Water;
(g) Hot water / Controlled Temperature Water;
(h) LPG Supply;
(i) Irrigation Main Line; 
(j) Supply and Installation of all Sanitaryware and Tapware;
(k) Waste Management Wiring Interface;
(l) Prototype Cell;
(m) Waste Water Treatment Plant;
(n) General Items;
(o) Additional Scope; and
(p) Interface with Other Trades.
4.1 Temporary Works
The Subcontractor shall design, supply, install and maintain throughout the lifecycle of the project, the following items for subcontractors’ compounds 3, 4 and 5 as depicted on Drawings drawing ____ to 006[D]:
(a) Three 5000L below ground sewer pump stations; 
(b) Six chilled water drinking fountains, equal to the Zip Site Master, complete with 0.2 micron filter kit, IP23 rated, heavy duty construction, 28l/h rated capacity;
(c) Six ice machines, including all consumables such as filter etc. Machine to include storage bin. Ice production min 100Kg/24hr (32deg air and 21 deg water temperatures.);
(d) Potable water reticulation system; 
(e) Allow a single 20mm connection to each demountable; 
(f) Allow a single 25mm connection to both ice rooms in compound 5;
(g) All isolation ball valves shall be able to be locked to ensure anti-vandalism; 
(h) Ensure familiarisation and compliance with Potable Water Reticulation Management Handbook (document ____) and make all necessary allowances as required;
(i) Sanitary plumbing and drainage system during. Allow a single 100mm connection to each demountable;
(j) Stormwater drainage system (including downpipes). Note the design shall cater for a min of 1:20 year storm occurrence;
(k) Sewer rising main, works shall be only for compounds 3,4 and 5 inside the main prison compound (outside the Common Services Trench scope);
(l) Submission of hydraulic services drawings to the building authority, via the builder, for approval. All cost associated with the submission; inspections will be bourne by the Principal. The local council require min 48 hours’ notice prior to inspections of all works associated with the installation of the temporary hydraulics services;
(m) Supply a Form 15 for design certification and Form 16 for installation certification;
(n) Temporary building water supply (20mm min) from the CST potable water connection. Each building shall have a min 3 hose taps adjacent a drinking fountain. The temporary water supply shall be made available directly after the ground floor slab has been poured and form work stripped. Subcontractor shall prepare and submit to the building authority for approval via the builder, a site wide temporary water supply showing locations of the hose taps and pipe reticulation as nominated above. All cost associated with the submission; inspections will be bourne by the Principal. The building authority require min 48 hours notice prior to inspections of all works associated with the installation of the temporary hydraulics services.
(o) Additional 85 water bubblers shall be allowed through the site to ensure compliance with the WHS Regulation 2011 Schedule 5 A Part 3 section 7 Drinking Water. The Subcontractor shall supply min 100 micron carbon filter which shall be maintained and replaced during the life of the project. Chilled water drinking fountains shall be equal to the Zip Site Master, complete with 0.2 micron filter kit, IP23 rated, heavy duty construction, 28 l/h rated capacity; 
(p) At the completion of the Project, remove and dispose of all reticulation, and any other temporary works as instructed by the Managing Contractor, and in an approved manner; and	Comment by reviewer: reviewer to confirm edit is correct, the subcontractor should allow to remove all temp works including bubblers and ice machines etc.	Comment by reviewer: yes
(q) Compliance with Project ESD (ISCA) requirements and submission of monthly reporting of ESD requirements/compliance. This involves a monthly manual reading of water meters to the subcontractor compound and the construction site. Submission to the builder is to accompany monthly progress claim and is to be in the form of a spreadsheet, updated monthly, complete with a photo of each meter showing kWh reading.
4.2 Sanitary Plumbing and Drainage
(a) Connection to the existing stub branches left within the Common Services Trench scope;	Comment by reviewer: Stub or sub?	Comment by reviewer: Stub
(b) Supply and installation of sewer stub branch 1 and branch 2 identified as part of the Common Services Trench scope on the Drawings; 
(c) Pipes, bends, junctions, vent cowls, expansion joints, test gates, traps, access gates etc.;
(d) Sewer manholes complete with concrete infill bolt down security lids and concrete surrounds;
(e) Drainage articulation to suit class M site ground movement. Design of jointing system to be signed off by third party registered structural, civil, or geotechnical engineer. This certification is required prior to shop drawing and material submittal submission and approval by the hydraulics services consulting engineer;
(f) Clips including seismic restraints which are to be designed and signed off by third party registered structural engineer;
(g) fAll floor waste/shower grates within inmate areas shall be of an anti-ligature type design complete with a nonslip finish complete with security bolt/screw locking points;
(h) All tundishes for mechanical services are to finish either behind a secure panel within a cabinetry unit or above ceiling level, within sight of an access panel to allow visual inspection;
(i) All floor waste gullies to be charged by a sanitary fixture or a hydraulic trap priming device. Floor waste gullies charged by wash down or condensate from mech plant will not be considered as an acceptable solution;
(j) Install 30m of 100mm slotted agricultural pipe within the main sewer trench discharging into the civil stormwater system where levels allow to drain at the main sewer connection and at the main sewer pump station connection;
(k) Coordinate with the electrical subcontractor with regards to the locations and power supply required for the sewer pump station. Shop drawings of the sewer pump stations shall be submitted to the builder for approval prior to manufacture. The drawings shall be structurally certified by an independent third party specifically dealing with ballast, backfill and compaction and structural integrity buried below ground;
(l) Acoustic treatment as required by the Acoustic Report. Submit documentation as a separate submission indicating where and what treatment is proposed for sign off by the Acoustic Consultant;
(m) Capping of all open sanitary drains. Blockages caused from foreign matter is the responsibility of the Hydraulics Subcontractor; 
(n) Sewer Pump Station to include carbon filter chamber vents, self-supporting weatherproof stainless-steel control panels, bolt down concrete infill covers, and frames complete with concrete surrounds. The Subcontractor shall also allow for a set of lifting frames for the safe removal of the submersible sewer pumps. These frames are to be demountable and left with the facilities maintenance manager for future use;
(o) Within 4m of the Sewer Pump Station, provide a hose tap and RPZD for maintenance with a secure enclosure; and
(p) Include all wiring between the control panel and pumps. 
4.3 Trade Waste Plumbing and Drainage
(a) Pipes, bends, junctions, vent cowls, expansion joints, test gates, traps, access gates etc;
(b) Trade waste manholes complete with concrete infill bolt down security lids and concrete surrounds;
(c) Drainage articulation to suit class M Site ground movement. Design of jointing system to be signed off by third party registered structural, civil, or geotechnical engineer. This certification is required prior to shop drawing and material submittal submission and approval by the hydraulics services consulting engineer;
(d) Clips including seismic restraints which are to be designed and signed off by third party registered structural engineer.
(e) Acoustic treatment as required by the Acoustic Report. Submit documentation as a separate submission indicating where and what treatment is proposed for sign off by the Acoustic Consultant.
(f) Capping of all open trade waste drains. Blockages caused from foreign matter is the responsibility of the Hydraulics Subcontractor; 
(g) All bucket trap and trench grates located with kitchens, laundries, industries, and sally port shall incorporate a nonslip finish. The grates shall be of a hinge type with security bolt locking points;
(h) Design and install a hot water flushing system for the trade waste drainage system where drainage lines are more than 40m from the grease interceptor trap. The flushing points shall be no greater than 40m apart and designed to automatically flush in out of hours operations. The system shall also include a manual override. The flushing device shall be designed to prevent any scalding during operation. The volume shall be min 100L of min 60 deg C water per flush;
(i) Supply and install grease trap/traps as shown on the drawings. Allow for class C concrete infill bolt down cover and frames. Within 4m of each grease trap, provide a hose tap and Reduced Pressure Zone Device (RPZD) for maintenance located within security cage above ground fixed to a concrete base with concealed security type fixings. The cage lock shall be locked in accordance with Site wide security keying requirements. Submit a shop drawing of the proposed security cage for approval by the builder prior to manufacture of the item;
(j) Supply and install cooling chamber(s) and lint trap(s) as shown on the Drawings. Allow for class C concrete infill bolt down cover and frames. Within four metres of each cooling, provide a hose tap and RPZD for maintenance located within security cage above ground fixed to a concrete base with concealed security type fixings. The cage lock shall be locked in accordance with Site wide security keying requirements. Submit a shop drawing of the proposed security cage for approval by the builder prior to manufacture of the item; 
(k) Provide a remote waste pump out point, signage and camlock connections (minimum 50mm) if not within 10 metres of adequate hardstand for the suction tanker; and
(l) Supply and install the oil-petrol interceptor trap(s) as shown on the drawings. Allow for class C concrete infill bolt down cover and frames. Within four metres of each oil petrol interceptor, provide a hose tap and RPZD for maintenance located within security cage above ground fixed to a concrete base with concealed security type fixings. The cage lock shall be locked in accordance with Site wide security keying requirements. Submit a shop drawing of the proposed security cage for approval by the builder prior to manufacture of the item. 
4.4 Stormwater Drainage
(a) Pipes, bends, junctions, stormwater pits, stormwater manholes as depicted on the Drawings;
(b) Pipes, bends, junctions, stormwater pits, stormwater manholes as depicted on the civil demarcation drawings in front of gate house and main carpark in front of new external chiller plant building;
(c) All pits and stormwater manholes to have bolt down security grates and frames with concrete surrounds; 
(d) Wrap all stormwater grates with a geotechnical fabric directly after installation to prevent sediment and debris entering the piped stormwater drainage reticulation. The Subcontractor shall be responsible for the maintenance of the fabric during construction and once final softscape/ pavement is complete, removal and disposal of the fabric;
(e) Stormwater drainage articulation to suit class M site ground movement. Design of jointing system to be signed off by third party registered structural, civil or geotechnical engineer;
(f) Capping of all open stormwater drains. Blockages caused from foreign matter is the responsibility of the Subcontractor; and
(g) Installation of an appropriate connector uPVC to metal at the base of all metal downpipes to prohibit the concealment of contraband. The connector is also to be fully watertight.
4.5 Potable Water Reticulation
(a) Pipes, bends, tees, valves, backflow valves, water meters etc;
(b) Connection to the existing stub branches left within the Common Services Trench scope;
(c) Supply the below valving arrangement to allow flushing of the building branch lines prior to commission the potable water building reticulation system.

(d) Cap all ends of potable water reticulation pipes whether in storage and or during installation. Disregard for this instruction may lead to dismissal from Site;
(e) Allow to allow to implement the Potable Water Reticulation Management Handbook (document ____) for all water service types;
(f) Clips including seismic restraints which are to be designed and signed off by third party registered structural engineer;
(g) Acoustic treatment as required by the Acoustic Report. Submit documentation as a separate submission indicating where and what treatment is proposed for sign off by the Acoustic Consultant;
(h) Allow for a fully automated water management system within the cells and accommodation ablution blocks. The water management system shall have the ability to be managed, controlled, and changed from the Facility Manager’s office within Industries and VPN copy within the Gatehouse. This system shall control potable (cold and controlled temperature) water, and recycled water for flushing;
(i) Supply and install the following potable water check meters;
(i) To measure the whole of the Site water consumption; 
(ii) To measure each building;
(iii) To measure cooling towers and or any major mechanical plant; and
(iv) To measure hot water plant;
(j) Note all the above meters are to be connected to the BMS.
4.6 Recycled/Fire Water Reticulation
(a) Connection to the existing stub branches left within the Common Services Trench scope and extend to all building termination points as shown on drawings. 
(b) Pipes, bends, tees, valves, backflow valves, water meters etc;
(c) External fire hydrants and cabinets;
(d) Internal Fire Hydrant test drains;
(e) Finish building fire water supply within the sprinkler valve cupboard 300mm above FFL in accordance with the fire specification for connection to by the fire subcontractor:
(f) Clips including seismic restraints which are to be designed and signed off by third party registered structural engineer;
(g) Cap all ends of recycled/fire water reticulation pipe work whether in storage and or during installation. Disregard for this instruction may lead to dismissal from Site;
(h) Supply the below valving arrangement to allow flushing of the building branch lines prior to commission the recycled water building reticulation system;

(i) Allow to allow to implement the Potable Water Reticulation Management Handbook (document ____) for all water service types;
(j) Acoustic treatment as required by the Acoustic Report. Submit documentation as a separate submission indicating where and what treatment is proposed for sign off by the Acoustic Consultant;
(k) Supply and install the following recycled water check meters:
(i) To measure the whole of the Site water consumption;
(ii) To measure each building;
(iii) To measure cooling towers and or any major mechanical plant; and
(iv) To measure irrigation;
(l) Note all the above meters are to be connected to the BMS.
4.7 Hot Water Reticulation
(a) Pipes, bends, tees, valves, backflow valves, water meters, balancing valves, check valves, temperature control devices, flues etc;
(b) Clips including seismic restraints which are to be designed and signed off by third party registered structural engineer;
(c) Cap all ends of hot water reticulation pipes, whether in storage and or during installation. Disregard for this instruction may lead to dismissal from Site;
(d) Ensure allowance has been made for thermal expansion within the hot water ring main reticulation. Expansion loops, bend, deflection legs, slide clips and fixed clips shall be clearly identified and detailed on the shop drawings prior to installation;
(e) Hot water plant as scheduled on the drawings. System to be connected to the BMS;
(f) Thermal insulation as specified. Any exposed insulation to weather is to have a metal sheath;
(g) Hot water circulation pumps. System to be connected to the BMS. Ensure the max continuous velocity within the hot water reticulation system shall not exceed 1.0m/s;
(h) Subcontractor to ensure system is balanced correctly; and
(i) Allow to allow to implement the Potable Water Reticulation Management Handbook (document ____) for all water service types.
4.8 LPG Reticulation
(a) Connection to the existing stub branches left within the Common Services Trench scope;
(b) Pipes, bends, tees, valves, 1st, and 2nd stage regulator with over pressure shut off (OPSO) , meters, etc;
(c) Cap all ends of LPG gas reticulation pipes, whether in storage and or during installation. Disregard for this instruction may lead to dismissal from Site;
(d) Clips including seismic restraints which are to be designed and signed off by third party registered structural engineer;
(e) House all external gas regulators with over pressure shut off (OPSO), in a ventilated security cage above ground fixed to a concrete base with concealed security type fixings. The cage lock shall be locked in accordance with Site wide security keying requirements. Submit a shop drawing of the proposed security cage for approval by the builder prior to manufacture of the item;
(f) Supply and install the following LPG check meters:
(i) To measure the whole of the Site Gas consumption; 
(ii) To measure each building; and
(iii) Note all the above meters are to be connected to the BMS.

4.9 Irrigation Main Line
(a) Connection to the existing sub-branches left within the Common Services Trench scope;
(b) Installation of 70 x 100mm diameter 6m length conduits for irrigation installation to all land locked landscape irrigation areas; and
(c) Supply and install irrigation main line connection to all areas as detailed on the landscape irrigation demarcation drawing.
4.10 Sanitaryware and Tapware
The Subcontractor shall include for the following:
(a) Supply and install the sanitaryware and tapware as scheduled and specified by the Architect. If the Subcontractor finds a sanitaryware or tapware fixture shown on the Drawings that is not referenced within the schedule the Subcontractor shall make an allowance for a suitable product for a high security corrections facility. Samples of the product shall be submitted for approval prior to installation; and
(b) The Subcontractor shall familiarise themselves with the Fixtures Furniture & Equipment (FF&E) schedules for any products that require, water, drainage, and gas. The Subcontractor will be responsible for making connection to the FF&E equipment from the Hydraulics services infrastructure. Any kitchen, laundry, medical and industries equipment connections shall be allowed for.
4.11 Water Management System Wiring Interface
The Subcontractor shall include the following;
(a) Supply and installation of all communications wiring (Cat 6 RS486), RJ 45 Jack wall plates etc associated with and for the Water Management system;
(b) Supply and installation of the WMS server;
(c) Supply and installation of the WMS PC;
(d) Supply and installation of the WMS LAN’s interface; and
(e) Supply and installation of the WMS control hubs.
Note all wiring, communication racks etc associated with the Engineering Services Network active side is by the Communications/ICT subcontractor. Refer to sketch below to demonstrate the interface.



4.12 Prototype Cell
(a) The Subcontractor has made sufficient allowances to assist with the fit out of a prototype cell that demonstrates in respect of a typical double cell the construction methods, materials, finishes, fittings and attachment methods for hydraulics layout;
(b) This prototype cell will be inspected and tested by the Principal’s audit consultants and the client representatives in respect of the aforementioned cell attributes to confirm conformity to the quality requirements inclusive of;
(i) Safety and security;
(ii) Contraband concealment risk; and
(iii) Strength of attachments for furniture and fittings and resilience to attack;
(c) All aspects of the prototype cell must be approved and accepted by both the client and the Principal prior to the Subcontractor proceeding with the completion of all other cells on the Project; and
(d) The Subcontractor has made sufficient allowances to assist with the fit out of a prototype officer’s post that demonstrates in respect of a typical officer’s post the construction methods, materials, finishes, fittings and attachment methods for mechanical services layout.
4.13 Waste Water Treatment Plant (WWTP)
(a) Provision of 50 mm potable water supply and RPZD backflow prevention device with water meter capped inside cold shell above slab for connection too by others;
(b) Connection of building down pipes from main building to Site civils stormwater connection;
(c) Sanitary drainage for the internal toilet block, tearoom, and laboratory sinks and connection to the existing sanitary drainage system;
(d) Hot and cold-water reticulation for the internal toilet block, tearoom, and laboratory sink;
(e) Supply and fit off plumbing and drainage fixtures for the internal toilet block, tearoom, and laboratory sink; and
(f) Provision of a 40mm fire service supply capped above slab for connection to by the fire services subcontractor. 
4.14 General
(a) In all areas accessible to in-mates, fixtures, fittings and covers are to be installed with anti-tamper screws of a type as nominated by the builder.  There will be commonality of anti-tamper fixings on site; 
(b) Provision of all cable containment (tray, ladders, baskets, duct, catenaries etc.) as applicable for hydraulics cabling as detailed on the Drawings and Specification or as required; 
(c) Ensure segregation of hydraulics and all other services is achieved and maintained; 
(d) Keying in accordance with the common keying requirements; 
(e) the builder have developed a General Cutover and Recovery Management Plan for any possible disruptions to the operations of the existing facility. As part of this plan (which is in operation for works currently occurring on site), potential disruptions are notified to the Client via a Service Impact on Operation (SIO). The Subcontractor will be responsible for the preparation of the  SIO prior to connection/ interfacing to the existing network/ facility. The SIO is to be finalised and approved by the Principal four weeks prior to the event. The Subcontractor is to allow for all Works related to the preparation of the SIO, including traffic guidance schemes and traffic control, as required;
(f) The Subcontractor will be responsible for the protection of all their equipment provided under the Subcontract. This includes water, dust and mechanical protection during the construction and completion phases of the Project; and
(g) The Subcontractor is responsible for the wrapping of their services as detailed on drawing ____ – TYPICAL SERVICES THROUGH SF# AND 1B# DETAIL. The 10PMa mass concrete where the service pass under footing is by others.

4.15 Additional Scope
The Subcontractor shall allow for the following items not detailed on the Subcontract Documents at the time of tender issue;
(a) Supply and installation of Safety Shower drainage to all locations as shown on the architectural drawings;
(b) Supply and installation of drainage to water meter cupboards site wide as shown on the Hydraulics and architectural drawings. Connection to be made to the stormwater drainage system;
(c) Supply and installation of Stormwater drainage to all Electrical Substations, MSB, UPS trenches;
(d) Supply and installation of sanitary drainage and potable water reticulation to external drinking fountains as shown on the architectural drawings;
(e) Supply and installation of 2x site wide ORG's required, consists of 150mm ORG's and adjacent in ground valve box with automatic trap primer and water feed from site water reticulation; 
(f) Allow to connect to each module at the Temporary Visitor Process Building with Potable water and sanitary drainage from the existing infrastructure. Allow for any roof drainage down pipes to be connected to the existing stormwater infrastructure;
(g) Allow for the supply and installation of an additional two (2) lint traps in the Laundry that are not documented on the Drawings at tender issue;
(h) Supply and installation of Stage 2 main stormwater infrastructure in front of Gatehouse and X21; and
(i) Supply and installation of additional conduits to Gatehouse Courtyard shown on architectural Drawings.
4.16 Variation Price Options
The Subcontractor shall allow for the following items as Variation Price Options;
(a) Supply and installation of new variable frequency drive recycled water pump set within existing main site pump house building X3 and interconnection with the existing recycled/fire water reticulation, allow for all temporary and out of hours connections associated with the new installation;
(b) Supply and installation of new 940KL recycled /fire water storage tank. Allow for all interconnecting pipe work, inlets, outlet, high/low level alarms, overflows, access, chlorination flow and return connections to match the profile of the existing recycled/fire water storage tanks. Allow for all associated engineering and foundations required to construct the recycled/fire water storage tank. Tank to be designed and constructed in accordance with AS 2304-2011;
(c) Supply and installation of new variable frequency drive potable water pump set within existing main site pump house building X3 and interconnection with the existing potable water reticulation, allow for all temporary and out of hours connections associated with the new installation;
(d) Upgrade existing site potable water main along entry road from existing X3 building to Stage 2 Potable water connection as shown on Drawings;
(e) Supply and installation of new 400 KL potable water storage tank. Allow for all interconnecting pipe work, inlets, outlet, high/low level alarms, overflows, access, chlorination flow and return connections to match the profile of the existing potable water storage tanks. Allow for all associated engineering required to construct the potable water storage tank. Tank to be designed and constructed in accordance with AS 2304-2011;
(f) Allow for hot and cold water pipe size increase to accommodation 80% simultaneous operation of showers in SE-1, SE-2, SE-3 and TH-1;
(g) Allow to supply and install an additional thirty (30) sewer manholes (1050 diameter) at an average depth of 1.5-2.0m deep;
(h) Allow to supply and install a BMS capable Site boundary gas meter (140kPa x 42,265mj/day capacity);
(i) Allow for amended potable water tanks and fire/ recycled water tanks suction configuration as per the sketches included in the Subcontract Documents; and
(j) Supply and installation of the deep inboard sewer (branches 1 and 2).

4.17 Interface with Other Trades
Refer to Appendix C for trades interface matrix.

5. COMPLETION REQUIREMENTS
Comply with the requirements of the Commissioning and Handover Management Plan. The Commissioning and Handover Management Plan includes the process and Subcontract requirements for Testing, Commissioning, Handover and Defects plus some details regarding how the processes are to be implemented.  Further requirements for commissioning and handover are detailed below. 
5.1 Witnessing of Testing and Commissioning Activities
5.1.1	Levels for Testing and Commissioning
There are four levels for testing and commissioning (which are reflected into the Construction Programme):
(a) Infrastructure – This is all works external to individual new buildings to be constructed as part of this Project. Infrastructure to support buildings must be in place and operational before any Building can be successfully tested and commissioned;
(b) Building – Each building is to be tested in isolation. Testing is to also prove successful interconnection into infrastructure including BMS, chilled water, fire panel, water supply, power supply, communications interconnectivity, security systems interconnectivity. It is also to verify load shedding operations via simulated ESN signals. Water Management System operates as per design. (Existing) fire pump operates when required;
(c) Neighbourhood – when all buildings forming part of a neighbourhood have been individually tested and commissioned, the operation of the neighbourhood is to be tested.  There are three main Communications rooms on site – in buildings GH, E1 and E2. Neighbourhoods are generally defined as a group of buildings with a common engineering systems connection. Neighbourhood testing is to prove all testing relating to that group of buildings operates as expected. This will require limited retesting within individual buildings. Examples include but are not limited to; 
(i) Operation of a smoke detector in SE1 indicates correctly in Entry building E2 fire panel;
(ii) Manual operation of the gas purge switch in E2 activates the fans in the associated building;
(iii) Building Management System monitoring and controlling all devices as expected, graphic user interfaces, trending, logging, reporting fully operational as expected;
(iv) Water Management System can be controlled and monitored as per design;
(v) Centralised UPS to be load tested over 4 hours and proven fully operational;  
(vi) Security monitoring/ control in E1 and E2 work as expected; and
(d) Site/ Precinct – This is site wide testing and commissioning and it includes total systems operation such as:
(i) Verification of device (e.g., smoke detector) location;
(ii) Operation of all Communications infrastructure;
(iii) Operation of all Security systems in the Main Control Room (MCR) including all status/ alarm interfaces with other services;
(iv) Operation of generators, including load shedding. Prior to this testing, numerous Engineering Services Network (ESN) load shed simulations with verification of operation of every item of electrical plant during and after a power disruption, including distribution boards, sewer pump stations, fire systems and mechanical plant; and
(v) Operation of all aspects of Water Management System, Energy Metering System, Building Management System and Emergency Lighting System including all Graphic User Interfaces.
(vi) Site/ precinct testing is to prove all testing relating to the Site operates as expected.  As per the neighbourhood testing, this will require limited retesting within individual buildings to prove functionality.   
5.1.2	Witness Testing Requirements
For each of the above levels of testing, there are witness testing requirements for all elements as follows:
(a) Subcontractor to carry out all testing and commissioning to ensure system integrity and operations are as required.  the builder will be present during this process.  All results are to be formalised and submitted to the builder via the ITP process;
(b) Witness Testing by the builder – If the builder did not fully witness the commissioning testing by the Subcontractor or is not satisfied that this witnessing was sufficient, this subcontractor is to allow for dedicated witness commissioning testing by the builder. This will generally be random testing verifying the results within the ITPs, but this testing may require a 100% retest for selected tests. For example, fire matrix testing;
(c) Witness Testing by the consultant – The Subcontractor is to allow for dedicated witness commissioning testing by the consultant. This will generally be random testing verifying the results within the ITPs, but this testing may require a 100% retest for selected tests. For example, fire matrix testing;
(d) Witness testing by Statutory Authorities – If there is a Statutory Authority with jurisdiction over the works, the Subcontractor is required to allow for whatever commissioning testing is requested to be witnessed and proven. For all such commissioning testing with the fire authority, the Subcontractor can expect the builder, the consultant, the Principal, the Building Certifier and the Fire Engineer to be invited to attend and be present;
(e) Witness Testing by the Principal and Project Authorities – The Subcontractor is to allow for dedicated witness commissioning testing by the Principal and by Project Authorities. Authorities in this case refers to the Building Certifier and the Fire Engineer. This will generally be random testing verifying the results within the ITPs, but this testing may require a 100% retest for selected tests.  For example, fire matrix testing; and
(f) The Subcontractor is to provide a matrix indicating all items to be tested/ commissioned plus is to clearly indicate all the above witness testing types.  the builder, in conjunction with the Subcontractor will then add to this list as required and pre-fill witness expectations for the consultant, the Principal and Project Authorities. This listing/ matrix will then be forwarded to the consultant, the Principal and Project Authorities for their consideration and advice regarding requirements. It can be expected that additional tests will be added, especially for integrated systems checks. 
5.2 Completion, Testing & Commissioning
The Subcontractor shall include for the following:
(a) Submit details of the proposed Inspection Test Plans (ITPs), commissioning procedures and methods of measurement.  ITPs, commissioning procedures and measurement methods which are not approved or not in accordance with Project requirements or Specifications will not be accepted as evidence that the systems have been correctly commissioned;
(b) Assist with the development of the Commissioning and Handover Management Plan when requested to by the builder. Whether or not the Subcontractor has contributed to the plan, the Subcontractor will adhere to the requirements of the Commissioning and Handover Management Plan (as amended from time to time) and as directed by the builder;
(c) Provide a dedicated overall commissioning manager who will develop a commissioning plan and manage the whole commissioning process (review the shop drawings for commission ability, develop the program and commissioning plans, ITPs etc., pre commissioning inspections,  through to commissioning of all systems to Substantial Completion). The commissioning manager will manage the Subcontractor’s commissioning program, all commissioning activities and commissioning resources;
(d) In addition to the overall commissioning manager, for each of the four construction areas, provide a dedicated area commissioning manager, plus testing and commissioning engineers dedicated to each construction group.  This means the providion of four separate testing/ commissioning teams for this Project;
(e) Develop and submit a Project specific Commissioning and Handover plan detailing the plan for all commissioning, testing and handover activities to verify the Works meet the Project specific requirements and standards. The plan shall be in accordance the builder Commissioning and Handover Management Plan and all other Subcontract Documentation and applicable Standards. As part of the plan submission, include all supporting commissioning documentation, including, Project specific ITPs, commissioning procedures and methods, commissioning results and test sheets, Inspection and Test Report templates, commissioning program, and commissionable systems list. Commissioning and testing of the Works shall be conducted on a progressive basis and align with the sequencing, staging and handover of the buildings and facilities. Allow for all commissioning and testing Works necessary to enable progressive witnessing and acceptance by the Principal and their representatives, including the retesting of systems where interfacing, connecting, or integrating to previous stages;
(f) Submit a commissioning program, itemising all commissioning, testing and handover activities, including hold and witness points for the Works for incorporation into the builder commissioning program. Indicate on the program the sequencing, prerequisites and dependencies of activities, the numbers of commissioning staff on Site at any time during the testing and commissioning period and the anticipated duration of the various activities on a system by system basis;
(g) Complete all labelling required by the Specification and any relevant Project specific requirements.  This includes labelling for pits pipes and valves.  Label samples are to be submitted for the builder's approval;
(h) Allow for all cost associated with one representative from the builder, the Hydraulics Consultant and the Principal (three people) to attend the Factory Acceptance Testing (FAT), Site Acceptance Testing (SAT) and Integrated System Testing (IST) on major plant and equipment to demonstrate the Works to the satisfaction of the builder, the Principal and their representatives. Allowance shall be made to support the progressive staging and handover of the buildings and facilities.  Major plant and equipment are defined as follows:
(i) Potable Water Pumps; 
(ii) Non-Potable Water Pumps; and
(iii) Sewer Pump Station;
(i) Prior to Construction Validation Testing, start-up, commission and test all Works in accordance with the approved Subcontract Documents using the approved ITPs, commissioning procedures and methods to verify correct operation and function in accordance with the Project requirements including the manufacturer’s requirements, Specification, Standards and the Subcontract;
(j) Undertake all testing, precommissioning, commissioning and Mode and Interface Testing and provide documentary evidence of same;
(k) Allow for Site tests, all necessary labour, materials, stores, apparatus and instruments for testing. Where tests are required to be performed away from the Site, provide everything necessary to carry out the tests;
(l) Ensure that all instruments have been calibrated by an independent certified testing authority within six months of the date of use and a current calibration certificate is available for inspection.  Instruments shall not be used to measure quantities which are outside their accurate measuring range. If there is reasonable doubt as to the accuracy of an instrument, the instrument shall be re-calibrated or alternatively, quantities measured with the disputed instrument shall be re-measured with another approved instrument;
(m) Operate all systems and equipment to the extent required for final installation, adjust, and calibrate controls and instruments and rectify all faults;
(n) Arrange for the setting up of major equipment provided for these Works to be supervised by the manufacturer's representative, who shall remain on Site until the equipment is operating satisfactorily;
(o) Coordinate manufacturer's representatives so that testing is carried out according to the approved program;
(p) Record all measurements and results using the approved ITPs, commissioning test sheets, Inspection and Test Records. Make any modifications and additions which are necessary to meet the requirements of the Project. When results are satisfactory and in accordance with the Project requirements, submit completed ITPs and commissioning results for review prior to witness testing;
(q) Provide completed quality assurance documentation including but not limited to ITPs and check sheets. Completed ITPs and check sheets are required to be submitted prior to any inspections plus uploaded into the Project O&M manual; 
(r) The Subcontractor shall provide operation and maintenance manuals in a format to be prescribed by the builder which are to be provided progressively as soon as reasonably available with final versions not later than Substantial Completion;
(i) Sections of the manual are to be provided progressively onto internet hosted O&M software such as proprietary O&M software or similar; 
(ii) Where the Subcontractor has BIM responsibilities, interactive referencing (e.g. identical Asset Numbering) to O&M manuals will also be required for all plant and equipment identified as a maintainable asset within the DEMP and associated Asset Information Register (AIR);	Comment by reviewer: add reviewer comment.
(iii) The maintenance section of the O&M manuals will require all maintenance activities required during Defects Liability Period to be separately itemised.  A draft of this section of the manuals is to be fully completed minimum four months before Substantial Completion, so the builder can review and approve the scope of proposed maintenance activities;
(s) Be responsible for and ensure that any Authority Approvals required in relation to the Works are in place; and
(t) Refer to Appendix D - Principal’s Requirements for Practical Completion Testing for Correctional Facilities Development at the project.  Ensure suitably proficient trade persons and qualified Supervisor(s) are present on site as applicable for;
(i) The 10 day Audit period;
(ii) The 25 day Working Day Monitoring period; and
(iii) The 5 consecutive day Fault Free period.  Should the fault free period not be deemed acceptable by the Principal, the 5-day fault free period will continue to recommence (restart the 5 days) until such time as fault free period is deemed acceptable by the Principal.

5.3 Interim Measures to Ensure Integrity of Plant and Systems is Maintained
Once a building has been successfully tested and commissioned, it will be locked and entry restricted.  A log book will be kept at the entry to each building for recording who entered, date, reason and works carried out. 

The Subcontractor’s Commissioning and Handover Management Plan and scope is to include interim measures to ensure integrity of plant and systems between the time a building is tested and commissioned and Practical Completion.  Such items will include:
(a) Installation of covers over all smoke detectors after commissioning and permanent removal just prior to Practical Completion;
(b) Installation of temporary construction filter media in all air handling plant prior to energisation and permanent removal just prior to Practical Completion.  In the interim, filter media is to be cleaned/ replaced as required;
(c) Scope for flushing pans, potable water, cleaning/ replacing filters on ZIPs etc will all be as per the Potable Water Reticulation Management Handbook (which forms part of the Hydraulics subcontract);
(d) Daily inspections of each communications room, UPS room, MSB room, substation to ensure no unauthorised access, rooms are locked, clean and conditions are being maintained;
(e) Maintain all plant and systems as required to ensure that integrity of operation is maintained.  For plant such as the chillers, this will include chiller maintenance as per manufacturer’s recommendations.  For emergency lighting, this will include rectification of any automatic system/ device problem report; and
(f) Cleaning: In addition to the building cleaning, the associated services trade will be responsible for the following specialist cleaning with a final clean just before Practical Completion;
(i) Cleaning/ replacing filters as required.  This includes any filters within any switchboard/ panel or hydraulic item;
(ii) Thorough clean inside all main plant including air handling units, electrical switchboards, mechanical switchboards, Fire Panels, Security panels;
(iii) Clean sensors and items within plant and ductwork such as MASD sampling points;
(iv) The Communications subcontractor to clean inside all racks and is to be responsible for cleaning requirements within all SER rooms/ cupboards.  This scope is to take effect from when the associated SER room/ cupboard is handed over to the Communications subcontractor for installation of racks to commence; and
(v) The Electrical subcontractor will be responsible for all cleaning requirements within high voltage rooms, main switchboard rooms and UPS rooms, once the associated equipment is energised.

5.4 Finalisation, Handover, DLP
The Subcontractor shall include for the following:
(a) Provide all warranties as required by Schedule 1 of the Subcontract and the Specification, and ensure warranties are in favour of the Principal.  Note special requirements for items including sealants, structural steelwork, fire rating, switchboards & control panels, pumps, air handlers, supply & ventilation fans, chillers & chilled water systems, piping, underground pipework, cable trays, split system air conditioners and cooling towers;
(b) Thermographic scanning of all switchboards one month prior to Practical Completion and again one month before the end of the Defect Liability Period. This work is to be completed by a specialist thermographic scanning company and the associated reports are to be provided within one week of testing and uploaded into the O&M manual.  Any anomalies found must be immediately rectified as any high temperature test result will not be accepted. Critical equipment that has to be taken offline and has an impact or disruption to the operating facility will require a temporary back up system before the works can be undertaken, this will be the Subcontractor’s responsibility;
(c) Four weeks prior to Practical Completion the Subcontractor shall submit for approval a valve schedule, outlining the features, location, size etc. of all hydraulic services isolation valves, back-flow protection and temperature controlling valves;
(d) Engage appropriately qualified Fire Engineer to certify the fire rating of the Subcontractor’s systems and workmanship throughout the entire Site. All penetrations and corresponding certifications shall be identified on a schedule and drawings and, if required, photo. All fire rated penetrations shall be tagged with a unique number.  Inspect and recertify all items at the end of the Defects Liability Period;
(e) Where elements of the Works form part of Essential Services as defined by the relevant Codes or Regulations of Statutory Authorities, then the Subcontractor will provide an Independent Certification and Inspection and Test Report, detailing the system and each component, the date they were inspected, tested and passed as installed and functioning in their correct and intended mode of operation or manner;
(f) Provide Form 16 for installed works;
(g) Provide an electronic BIM, CAD and PDF copy of As-Built documentation marked As-Built including the conversion of shop drawings to As-Built status. As-Built documents are to be provided progressively as soon as reasonably available with final versions not later than Substantial Completion;
(h) Provide training to Operations and Facilities Maintenance Staff as nominated by the builder. The Subcontractor will provide a Training Plan in accordance with the obligations of the Commissioning and Handover Management Plan. Training shall be completed prior to Practical Completion with ongoing support as necessary.  Note that the builder Commissioning and Handover Management Plan requires professional video recording and presentation of all training sessions as part of the client “train the trainer”.  The Subcontractor is responsible for the training materials and production of quality material associated with its Works for inclusion into the O&M manuals;
(i) Spare parts: No spare parts are required to be provided for Practical Completion unless specifically nominated in the Specification or this scop of works, however, the Subcontractor is required to maintain sufficient spare parts and replacement components as required for maintenance purposes up until the end of the Defects Liability Period. The Subcontractor is to replace spare parts consumed during the maintenance period;
(j) Provide operational commissioning assistance to the client via an on-site full time Supervisor(s) or similar who is fully conversant with the Project for 12 weeks (five days per week but available seven days per week, 24 hours per day) from the Date of Practical Completion; 
(k) Maintenance during the Defect Liability Period:
(i) the builder and the client will be utilising the maintenances as scheduled within the O&M software to forecast future activities, subcontractors involved and the client personnel required on site, including security guards; 
(ii) Provide preventative, manufacturer’s recommended and statutory maintenance during the Defect Liability Period as per the Subcontract and Specification. This scope includes provision of all consumables and components. Timing of all maintenances (date, time of day, and time window available) is to be as predetermined with the builder and the client Facility Maintenance provider;
(iii) If annual maintenance is required by manufacturer’s recommendations or statutory requirements, that maintenance is to be provided by the Subcontractor; 
(iv) For integrated maintenance testing, the Subcontractor shall be responsible for being the lead for completion testing, and the lead for maintenance testing, including organising the timing of testing with the builder/ the client and the associated trades;  
i. Special attention needs to be provided for operationally invasive maintenances such as AS1851 part 18 fire smoke control testing;
(v) Allowance is to be made for generator black start test at Practical Completion and at the end of the Defect Liability Period. Attendance is required on site by every trade to confirm correct operation of equipment.  Note that the diesel consumed during testing by the “new” generator is considered as a “consumable”;
(vi) The expectation is that after Practical Completion, the Project will immediately become an operational prison.  As such, after Practical Completion, the client rules and processes can be expected to apply.  No exceptions; and
(vii) For all maintenances, besides the client FM procedures to be followed, the requirements of maintenance activity reporting in the O&M software are to be completed;
(l) At least eight weeks before the end of the Defects Liability Period, submit via the document management system and the O&M software a schedule of tools, portable instruments, and spare parts necessary for maintenance of the installation.  For each item, state the recommended quantity and the manufacturer’s current price. Include the following in the prices;
(i) Checking receipt, marking, and numbering in accordance with the spare parts schedule. 
(ii) Packaging and delivery to site; 
(iii) Painting, greasing, and packing to prevent deterioration during storage; and
(iv) Referencing equipment schedules in the operation and maintenance manuals;
(m) Requirements before the end of the DLP include:
(i) Thermographic scan of all switchboards and provide report;
(ii) Recertify all Fire penetrations and systems;
(iii) Complete all annual maintenances;
(iv) Electrical to conduct 11kV generator black test. All trades to attend;
(v) Replace any “spares” used in DLP; and
(vi) Provide a list of “spares” recommended for the client to have on site (plus pricing).









































6. SUBCONTRACT DOCUMENTS
(a) The Subcontract Technical Specification, Drawings and Other Documents are provided in electronic format via document management system Tender Reference ____, and the document management system Correspondence References document ____ and document ____);
(b) Documents include but are not limited to:
(i) Technical Specifications; 
(i) Geotechnical reports; and 
(ii) Drawings;
(c) Copies of Australian Standards and Codes of Practice and the like as referenced in the Scope of Works are not included in this Subcontract, however, they remain integrated with the Scope of Works.  These documents can be provided upon the request of the Subcontractor; and
(d) If the Tendered Subcontract Documents have been altered during the Request for Tender period and prior to Award of Subcontract, the Price for the alterations is deemed to be included in the Price Schedule and the Subcontractor shall have no entitlement to a variation claim or to extend the Date for Completion.
	Document Name
	Document Number
	Rev

	Report on Geotechnical Investigation the project
	document ____
	0

	Site Water analysis Report
	document ____
	2

	Soil Assessment Report - AMENDMENT to 200mm subgrade
	document ____
	3

	COVER SHEET
	drawing ____
	B

	MATERIALS & FINISHES SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECINCT CONTEXT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE CONTEXT PLAN - SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE CONTEXT PLAN - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	B

	FENCE LOCATION PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - SECURE ZONES
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - STAFF / PRISONER SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - STAFF / PRISONER SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - STAFF / PRISONER SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - STAFF / PRISONER SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - MAINTENANCE / TUGS SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - MAINTENANCE / TUGS SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - MAINTENANCE / TUGS SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - MAINTENANCE / TUGS SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - EMERGENCY SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - EMERGENCY SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	C

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - EMERGENCY SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - EMERGENCY SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - COVERED WALKWAY TYPES
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - KEY
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 06
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 07
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 08
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 09
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 25
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 29
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 30
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 31
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 32
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 33
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 34
	drawing ____
	A

	COVERED WALKWAYS
	drawing ____
	B

	COVERED WALKWAY - SECTION / DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	FENCE TYPES - SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	B

	FENCE TYPES - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	B

	FENCE TYPES - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	I

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL HEIGHTS - ELEC/COMMS/SECURITY/MECH
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL HEIGHTS - PLUMBING
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL HEIGHTS - FFE
	drawing ____
	C

	DDA TYPICAL LAYOUTS
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL GRABRAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	DOOR THRESHOLDS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR THRESHOLDS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR THRESHOLDS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	FLOOR FINISHES - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	FLOOR FINISHES - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	FLOOR SLAB JUNCTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	FLOOR SLAB JUNCTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	FLOOR SLAB JUNCTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	WALL TYPES - PARTITIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PARTITIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PARTITIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PARTITIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - BLOCK & BRICK SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - BLOCK & BRICK SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PRECAST SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PRECAST SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PRECAST SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PRECAST SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - GIRTS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - LININGS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL DETAILS & JUNCTION - VERTICAL TRANSITIONS - SH 1
	drawing ____
	B

	WALL DETAILS & JUNCTION - VERTICAL TRANSITIONS - SH 2
	drawing ____
	C

	WALL DETAILS & JUNCTION -VERTICAL TRANSITIONS - SH 3
	drawing ____
	A

	WALL DETAILS & JUNCTIONS - PLAN DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WALL DETAILS & JUNCTIONS - PLAN DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	CONSTRUCTION DETAILS - MOVEMENT JOINTS
	drawing ____
	B

	WALL ACCESS PANELS
	drawing ____
	B

	WALL & ROOF JUNCTION DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	WALL & ROOF JUNCTION DETAILS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF DETAILS - ROTATED FASCIA - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF DETAILS - ROTATED FASCIA - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF DETAILS - ROTATED FASCIA - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF DETAILS - ROTATED FASCIA - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF DETAILS - PRECAST - ZERO OVERHANG - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF GUTTER DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	CONSTRUCTION DETAILS - ROOF MOVEMENT JOINT
	drawing ____
	B

	CEILING DETAILS - ACOUSTIC
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING DETAILS - SECURE
	drawing ____
	B

	CEILING DETAILS - FIRE
	drawing ____
	B

	ACCESS PANELS DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	STAIR DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	STAIR DETAILS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - TABLES & STOOLS
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - VISITS TABLE & STOOL PLANS & DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - BALUSTRADE DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - HANDRAILS DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - PLANT DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - CORNER GUARD & BENCH SEAT
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - TV ENCLOSURE
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - SERVICES ENCLOSURE
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - BOLLARD & BIN BRACKET
	drawing ____
	B

	ANTI-LIGATURE FIXTURES - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ANTI-LIGATURE FIXTURES - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRIVACY SCREEN DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL TOILET & SEARCH CUBICAL DETAILS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL TOILET & SEARCH CUBICAL DETAILS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	NON CONTACT VISITS DIVIDING WALL DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	ALUMINIUM WINDOW FRAME DETAILS - EXTERNAL
	drawing ____
	C

	ALUMINIUM WINDOW FRAME DETAILS - EXTERNAL
	drawing ____
	C

	ALUMINIUM WINDOW FRAME DETAILS - INTERNAL
	drawing ____
	C

	ALUMINIUM WINDOW FRAME DETAILS - INTERNAL
	drawing ____
	C

	ALUMINIUM WINDOW FRAME - SMOKE SPILL LOUVRE
	drawing ____
	A

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - PRECAST CONCRETE
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - BLOCKWORK
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - DAY ROOM
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - DOOR FRAME JUNCTION
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - RHS WINDOWS
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - MANAGEMENT
	drawing ____
	B

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - PHARMACY WINDOW
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - PHARMACY WINDOW
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - DAY ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - INTERNAL
	drawing ____
	C

	OBSERVATION WINDOW
	drawing ____
	C

	OBSERVATION WINDOW - MANAGMENT UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS -OFFICER POST-CARD PASS
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	NON CONTACT VISITS DIVIDING WALL
	drawing ____
	A

	LOUVRE DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	LOUVRE DETAILS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR FRAME TYPES - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS - PRECAST
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS - BLOCKWORK
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS - LIGHTWEIGHT FRAME
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS - ALUMINIUM
	drawing ____
	A

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	DOOR LEAF TYPES -SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	DOOR LEAF TYPES -SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	DOOR LEAF TYPES -SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	B

	SINGLE CELL - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	SINGLE CELL - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	SINGLE CELL - SAFETY UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	SINGLE CELL - MENTAL HEALTH UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	SINGLE CELL - DETENTION UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	DOUBLE CELL - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	DOUBLE CELL - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	ACCESSIBLE CELL
	drawing ____
	B

	ACCESSIBLE CELL - SAFETY UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	ACCESSIBLE CELL - MENTAL HEALTH UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	ACCESSIBLE CELL - DETENTION UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	OBSERVATION CELL - DETENTION UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	STAIR DETAILS - SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	B

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - NORTH
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - SOUTH
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - EAST
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - WEST
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	D

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART A
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART B
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART C
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART D
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART A
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART B
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART A
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART B
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN - PART A
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN PART B
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN - PART C
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF PLAN - PART D
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - NORTH
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SOUTH
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - EAST
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - WEST
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	J

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	J

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	UPPER LEVEL - SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	STAIR DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	UPPER PLANT FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	UPPER PLANT SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	UPPER PLANT REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	B

	ELEVATIONS - NORTH
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SOUTH
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - EAST AND WEST
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	I

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	I

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	I

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	G

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	J

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	J

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	STAIR SETOUTS & DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	STAIR DETAILS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR ROOM DETAILS KEY PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	FIRST FLOOR ROOM DETAILS KEY PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	E

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	STAIR SETOUT AND DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	J

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART PLAN 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART PLAN 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	A

	STAIR SETOUT AND DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	E

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTION - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	A

	STAIR SETOUT AND DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	CONSTRUCTION DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	K

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	I

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	I

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____.pdf
	F

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	K

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	SERVICES LEVEL FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SERVICES LEVEL FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GOUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SERVICES LEVEL SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SERVICES LEVEL SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SERVICES LEVEL SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SERVICES LEVEL SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 3 (THERAPEUTIC)
	drawing ____
	A

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	SERVICES LEVEL RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	G

	SERVICES LEVEL FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	E

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	CONSTRUCTION DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	C

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	SERVICES LEVEL RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	B

	SERVICES LEVEL FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	C

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - OVERALL
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	CEILING SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR WALL SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR WALL SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	HIGH LEVEL WALL SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	HIGH LEVEL WALL SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR - REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR - REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	E

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	G

	EXISTING AND DEMOLITION PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	UPPER WALL SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY ROOF EAST DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY ROOF NORTH DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY ROOF SOUTH DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY ROOF GENERAL DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	CONSTRUCTION DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	SITE PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR - EXISTING AND DEMOLITION PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR - PROPOSED ARRANGEMENT
	drawing ____
	E

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR - SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR - SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR - REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR - RISK / SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR - FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	GCS Scope Report
	document ____
	B

	EXTERIOR FINISHES LEGEND
	document ____
	C

	INTERIOR FINISHES LEGEND
	document ____
	G

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	D

	INTERIOR JOINERY LEGEND
	document ____
	F

	Hydraulic Fixtures Schedule
	document ____
	D

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE LEGEND
	document ____
	D

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	JOINERY SHEET MARK UP SHEET 4
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	JOINERY SHEET MARK UP SHEET 3
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	WALL TYPE MARK UP
	drawing ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Contents
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - General Requirements
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Adhesives, Sealants & Fasteners
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Metals & Prefinishes
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Concrete
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Masonry
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Structural Steel
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Steel - Hot Dip Galvanised Coatings
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Security Steel
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Windows & Glazing
	document ____
	B

	Architectural Specification - Doors
	document ____
	B

	LABELLING STRATEGY
	document ____
	A

	IRRIGATION PLAN HYDRAULICS WORKS
	drawing ____ WORKS
	H

	Irrigation Early Works IFC Cover Page
	drawing ____
	0

	IRRIGATION COVER SHEET
	drawing ____
	D

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	Irrigation Detailed design
	drawing ____
	C

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION
	drawing ____
	A

	Subcontractor Health Safety and Environment (HSE) Pack
	document ____
	3

	COVID-19 Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Cutover Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Cyber Security Guidelines
	document ____
	A

	Commissioning & Handover Management Plan
	document ____
	E

	Digital Engineering Management Plan
	document ____
	F

	Document Management Plan
	document ____
	4

	Environmental Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Workplace Emergency Response Plan
	document ____
	B

	Subcontractor Modelling Guidelines
	document ____
	1

	Project Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Quality Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Security Access Management Plan
	document ____
	C

	Traffic Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Workplace Safety Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Waste Management Plan
	document ____
	A

	Structure Methodology Presentation
	document ____
	3

	The project - Water Management System Operational Requirements
	document ____
	1

	Commonality of Engineering Services
	document ____
	D

	Potable Water Reticulation Management Handbook
	document ____
	1

	Sub Contractors Compounds
	drawing ____
	D

	Sub Contractors Compound #1 - Part A
	drawing ____
	D

	Sub Contractors Compound #1 - Part B
	drawing ____
	D

	Sub Contractors Compound #2
	drawing ____
	D

	Sub Contractors Compound #6
	drawing ____
	D

	Sub Contractors Compound #3, #4, #5
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER SHEET, LOCALITY PLAN & DRAWING SCHEDULE SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET, LOCALITY PLAN & DRAWING SCHEDULE SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GENERAL NOTES
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS OVERALL
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 25
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 29
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 30
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS TYPICAL SECTIONS & DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS TYPICAL SECTIONS & DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT OVERALL PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	B

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	B

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	PAVEMENT OVERALL PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	PAVEMENT DETAILS AND TYPICAL ROAD SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL ROAD CROSS SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER OVERALL PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 25
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 29
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 30
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 1 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 2 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 3 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 4 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 5 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 6 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 7 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 8 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 9 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 10 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 11 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 12 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 13 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 14 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 15 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCE01 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	MCE02 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERNAL STUB ROADS LONG SECTIONS SHEET 1 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERNAL STUB ROADS LONG SECTIONS SHEET 2 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERNAL STUB ROADS LONG SECTIONS SHEET 3 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERNAL STUB ROADS LONG SECTIONS SHEET 4 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERNAL STUB ROADS LONG SECTIONS SHEET 5 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	MKB09 TO MKB15 LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS SHEET 1 OF 4
	drawing ____
	A

	MKB01 TO MKB15 LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS SHEET 2 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	MKB01 TO MKB15 LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS SHEET 3 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	MKB01 TO MKB15 LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS SHEET 4 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	MKR01 TO MKR05 LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 1 OF 17
	drawing ____
	B

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 2 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 3 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 4 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 5 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 6 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 7 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 8 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 9 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 10 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 11 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 12 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 13 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 14 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 15 OF 17
	drawing ____
	B

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 16 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 17 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	OVERALL SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	C

	GENERAL CONSTRUCTION NOTES SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION NOTES SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	STEELWORK CONSTRUCTION NOTES SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE PLAN OVERALL
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	A

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND DETAILS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND DETAILS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL COLUMN DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL WALL DETAILS MASONRY
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL CONCRETE WALL DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL PRECAST PANEL TYPES SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	TYPICAL PRECAST PANEL TYPES SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL PRECAST PANEL BASE AND MID CONNECTIONS
	drawing ____
	E

	TYPICAL PRECAST PANEL TOP CONNECTIONS
	drawing ____
	E

	TYPICAL PRECAST JOINT DETAILS
	drawing ____
	E

	TYPICAL SECURE JOINT DETAILS
	drawing ____
	E

	PRECAST DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL SUSPENDED SLAB DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	TYPICAL SUSPENDED SLAB DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL STAIR DETAILS
	drawing ____
	D

	STEEL STAIR 1 DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL STAIR 2 DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	PLANT STEEL STAIR DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	STEEL DETAILS BASE PLATES SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL STEEL DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL STEEL DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL STEEL DETAILS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL DETAILS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	STEEL DETAILS SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	STEEL DETAILS SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	STEEL DETAILS SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	TYPICAL STEEL BASE PLATE DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	TYPICAL FENCE DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL FENCE DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL FENCE DETAILS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL FENCE DETAILS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	COVERED WALKWAY DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	SHELTER FRAMING PLAN AND ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTINGS AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	LOWER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	UPPER ROOF FRAMING
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	C

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SUSPENDED SLAB PART 1 BOTTOM REINFORCEMENT
	drawing ____
	C

	SUSPENDED SLAB PART 1 TOP REINFORCEMENT
	drawing ____
	C

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PART 3
	drawing ____
	E

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTINGS AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	LEVEL 1 CONCRETE LID GENERAL ARRANGEMENT
	drawing ____
	F

	STEEL CEILING PLANS
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF FRAMING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	STEEL FRAMING ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	D

	STEEL FRAMING ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SLAB ON GROUND BTM REINFORCEMENT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	PLANT GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	UPPER ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTION SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	CEILING FRAMING
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	UPPER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	DRAWING REMOVED FROM SET
	drawing ____
	C

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTINGS AND SLLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLABS GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLABS GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN 2
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLABS GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	STEEL CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	LOWER ROOF PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	UPPER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	A

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	LOWER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	HIGH ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	C

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	LEVEL 1 SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR CEILING FRAMING PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	LEVEL 1 CEILING FRAMING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	H

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	LEVEL 2 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	LEVEL 2 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	LEVEL 2 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	LEVEL 1 CEILING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	LEVEL 1 CEILING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND LEVEL CEILING PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	J

	UPPER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING PLAN AND LOWER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	UPPER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	UPPER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR CEILING FRAMING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	LEVEL 1 SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	LEVEL 1 SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR AND FOOTING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	COOLING TOWER FRAMING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR AND FOOTING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	LEVEL 1 CONCRETE LID G.A. PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	Civil Specification
	document ____
	2

	Brick & Block Specification
	document ____
	A

	Concrete Specification
	document ____
	A

	Detailed Excavation Specification
	document ____
	A

	Steel Specification
	document ____
	A

	SITE - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	0

	SITE - KEY PLAN
	drawing ____
	0

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	2

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	2

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	2

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	2

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	2

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 25
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 29
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 30
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 31
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 32
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 33
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 34
	drawing ____
	A

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - AD-006 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - AD-006 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - AD-004 OFFICER POST COMMUNICATION AV RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	E

	STANDARD DETAILS - COMMUNICATIONS LEGEND
	drawing ____
	H

	STANDARD DETAILS - PSN NETWORK SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - PN NETWORK SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - ESN NETWORK SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - IP TELEVISION NETWORK SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL TRENCH DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL PIT DETAILS
	drawing ____
	E

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL CST CROSSOVER DETAILS
	drawing ____
	D

	STANDARD DETAILS - AUDIO VISUAL DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL SERVICES SEGREGATION
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL CABLE SUPPORT DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - AUDIO VISUAL DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - FLOOR BOX DETAIL
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - TELEVISION CONTROL PANEL DETAIL
	drawing ____
	A

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - CP-03 CHILLER PLANT DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - CP-01 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - DU-102 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - DU-102 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - DU-017 OFFICER POST COMMUNICATION AV RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-038 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-038 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-038 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-064 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-064 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-067 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-067 COMMUNICATION RACKS ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-082 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-082 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-082 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	GATEHOUSE - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	E

	GATEHOUSE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - ROOF PLAN COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GATEHOUSE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - GH-107 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - GH-107 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - GH-107 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GATEHOUSE - GH-107 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GATEHOUSE - COMMUNICATIONS FIBRE RISER DETAIL
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES - IN-029 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES - IN-029 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES - IN-029 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES - IN-005 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	E

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - KL-101 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - KL-101 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - MF-014 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - MF-014 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH - MH-009 WRITE UP DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH - MH-105 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - MH-105 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	MEDICAL UNIT - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - MU-102 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - MU-102 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	MEDICAL UNIT - MU-026 OFFICER POST COMMUNICATIONS AV RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	PRISONER PROCESSING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - PP-030 OFFICER POST COMMUNICATIONS AV RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	B

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - RE-007 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - RE-007 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	E

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SE-202 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SE-202 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - SH-006 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - SH-006 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	SUBSTATION 1 - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION 1 - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - TR-007 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - TR-007 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - VI-028 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS - VI-028 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - VI-056 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITS - VI-056 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITOR PROCESSING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITOR PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITOR PROCESSING - VP-005 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITOR PROCESSING - VP-005 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	SPECIFICATION FOR COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
	document ____
	B

	COVER PAGE
	drawing ____
	1

	DRAWING SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	1

	LEGEND OF SYMBOLS
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - PRECINCT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	SCHEDULE - ELECTRICAL PITS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	2

	SCHEDULE - ELECTRICAL PITS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	2

	LV BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE LV SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE LV SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE LV SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE LV SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	MSB-05 SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	LV CABLE SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	A

	UPS BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	UPS SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	UPS SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	UPS SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	UPS SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	DB-X21-UPS SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	UPS CABLE SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	A

	EMERGENCY LIGHTING BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	LIGHTING CONTROL SCHEMATIC AND SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	C

	NEW STANDBY GENERATOR (GEN 3) - COMMS BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	NETWORK CONTROL SYSTEM OVERVIEW
	drawing ____
	A

	LOAD SHED CONTROL BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	HV SWITCHING LOGIC TABLES - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	HV SWITCHING LOGIC TABLES - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	HV SWITCHING LOGIC TABLES - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	HV SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	SS-M1-01 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-02 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-03 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-04 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-05 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	GENERATOR 3 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	TEMPORARY LOAD BACK PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-01 HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-02 HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-03 HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-04-HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-05-HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	A

	GENERATOR 3 PROTECTION SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	A

	TEMPORARY LOAD BACK PROTECTION SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE EARTHING BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE EARTHING SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL BUILDING EARTHING SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	A

	TYPICAL SUBSTATION EARTHING DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	TYPICAL PIT
	drawing ____
	A

	TYPICAL PERIMETER SECTION
	drawing ____
	A

	CENTRAL FACILITY SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	CENTRAL FACILITY UPS RETICULATION SCHEDULE AND SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	A

	METERING NETWORK SCHEMATICS
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN - OVERALL - OVERALL
	drawing ____
	3

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 07
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 08
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 09
	drawing ____
	D

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	D

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	D

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	D

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	D

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	3

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	3

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	3

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	3

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	3

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	D

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	D

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE MASTERPLAN LIGHTING DISTRIBUTION BOARD LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILS - LOW VOLTAGE PITS AND TRENCHES
	drawing ____
	1

	DETAILS - TRENCHES
	drawing ____
	1

	CENTRAL FACILITIES - SITE PLAN - ELECTRICAL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	EXTERNAL FACILITIES NEW STANDBY GENERATOR LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	A

	ADMINISTRATION - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	ADMINISTRATION - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	B

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION PLAN - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	ADMINISTRATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION PLAN - ROOF LEVEL
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	A

	DETENTION UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - SCHEMATIC - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SCHEMATIC SHEET 2 SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART A
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART B
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART A
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART B
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SUBSTATION EQUIPMENT LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - TRENCH LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - 3D DETAILS GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	GATEHOUSE - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	GATEHOUSE - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	GATEHOUSE - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	A

	GATEHOUSE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SUBSTATION EQUIPMENT LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SUBSTATION TRENCH LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - 3D DETAILS GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - POWER & LIGHTING LAYOUT - PLANTROOM
	drawing ____
	B

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	B

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	D

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	MEDICAL UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRISONER PROCESSING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	A

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	PRISONER PROCESSING - SUBSTATION EQUIPMENT LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - TRENCH AND EARTHING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - 3D DETAILS - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEDULE CABLE AND CHASSIS
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEDULE LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	A

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAMS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAMS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	D

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	SPORTS HALL - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	SPORTS HALL - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	B

	SPORTS HALL - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	SPORTS HALL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - ROOF LEVEL
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SHEET 1 SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SHEET 2 SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SHEET 3 SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - ROOF LEVEL
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITS BUILDING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITS BUILDING - EQUIPMENT AND CABLE TRAY LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - EARTH AND TRENCHING LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - 3D DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - POWER & LIGHTING LAYOUT PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITOR PROCESSING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITOR PROCESSING - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITOR PROCESSING - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITOR PROCESSING - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITOR PROCESSING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	A

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	CHILLER PLANT - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	CHILLER PLANT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	CHILLER PLANT - DIMENSIONS - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - EARTHING AND FLOOR ARCHORING GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - 3D DETAILS - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SUBSTATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SUBSTATION - CABLE TRAY LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - TRENCH LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - DIMENSION DETAIL - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE
	drawing ____
	2

	DRAWING SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	2

	LEGEND OF SYMBOLS
	drawing ____
	1

	GENERAL NOTES
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE PLAN
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 07
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 08
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 09
	drawing ____
	D

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	D

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	E

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	D

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	D

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	D

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	E

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	A

	DRY FIRE SERVICES - SITE SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	C

	DRY FIRE SERVICES - OVERALL SITE NETWORK CABLING
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	2

	DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	0

	ADMINISTRATION BULDING - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BULDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	GATEHOUSE - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	GATEHOUSE - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - PLANT LEVEL
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - PLANT LEVEL
	drawing ____
	C

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUDRY - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUDRY - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUDRY - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUDRY - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING WET FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITOR PROCESSING - FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - SITE PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	CHILLER PLANT - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	A

	CHILLER PLANT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SUBSTATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAWING SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	3

	LEGEND OF SYMBOLS
	drawing ____
	5

	GENERAL SPECIFICATION NOTES
	drawing ____
	1

	PIPEWORK, MATERIALS, FITTINGS & FIXTURES SCHEDULES
	drawing ____
	3

	EQUIPMENT & PLANT SCHEDULES - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	4

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - OVERALL SITE
	drawing ____
	4

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 07
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 08
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 09
	drawing ____
	1

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	2

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	5

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	5

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	2

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	2

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	4

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	4

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	1

	DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	1

	DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	2

	DETAILS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	3

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	DETENTION UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	DETENTION UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	DETENTION UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	G

	GATEHOUSE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	GATEHOUSE - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRAINAGE / WATER & GAS LAYOUT - PLANT ROOM & DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	B

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	C

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	PRISONER PROCESSING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	SPORTS HALL - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	VISITS BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	VISITS BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	VISITS BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	VISITOR PROCESSING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITOR PROCESSING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	CHILLER PLANT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SUBSTATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE
	drawing ____
	1

	DRAWING SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	2

	LEGEND OF SYMBOLS
	drawing ____
	1

	GRILLE SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - OVERALL SITE
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 07
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 08
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 09
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	3

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	3

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	1

	BUILDING GROUP DETAIL SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING GROUP DETAIL SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	ADMINISTRATION BULDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BULDING - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	B

	ADMINISTRATION BULDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - LOW LEVEL
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - HIGH LEVEL
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	A

	DETENTION UNIT - SECTION AND DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - SECTION AND DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - SECTION AND DETAILS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 4
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SCHEMATICS
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANTROOMS
	drawing ____
	B

	GATEHOUSE - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - LAYOUT FIRST FLOOR ROOF
	drawing ____
	A

	GATEHOUSE - LAYOUT FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SCHEMATICS
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANTROOM
	drawing ____
	B

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT ROOF
	drawing ____
	A

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	B

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANTROOM
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SHEET 1 OF 3
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SHEET 2 OF 3
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SHEET 3 OF 3
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEAMENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT -ROOF - SHEET 1LTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT -ROOF - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATICSSHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - ROOF - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - ROOF - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LAYOUT -ROOF - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATICS
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION BUILDING - AIR SCHEMATIC SHEET 1 OF 3
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION BUILDING - AIR SCHEMATIC SHEET 2 OF 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION BUILDING - AIR SCHEMATIC SHEET 3 OF 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SECTIONS AND DETAILS
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATICS
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - LAYOUT - CHW SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITS BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITOR PROCESSING - PROPOSED LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - DEMO LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITOR PROCESSING - SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - PLANTROOM SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - COOLING TOWERS ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	CHILLER PLANT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - CHILLER PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	SUBSTATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SUBSTATION - SECTION
	drawing ____
	B

	ACOUSTIC DESIGN REPORT
	document ____
	D

	ECOLOGICALLY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK
	document ____
	D

	FIRE ENGINEERING REPORT
	document ____
	E

	LUMINAIRE SCHEDULE
	document ____
	F

	MECHANICAL SERVICES - PRELIMINARY EQUIPMENT SCHEDULES
	document ____
	G

	ELECTRICAL SPECIFICATION
	document ____
	C

	FIRE PROTECTION SPECIFICATION
	document ____
	C

	HYDRAULIC SPECIFICATION
	document ____
	C

	MECHANICAL SERVICES SPECIFICATION
	document ____
	C

	fire-ant-biosecurity-zone-map.pdf
	N/A
	N/A

	210512 All Building HYD Fixtures markup.pdf
	N/A
	N/A

	SE_TH_Ground Floor Plan_HydMarkup.pdf
	N/A
	N/A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_A63-01
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_A63-11
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_A63-21
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_A63-31
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_A63-51
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_A63-52
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_A63-61
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_A63-71
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_A63-72
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_A63-75
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_A63-81
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_A63-82
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_C65-31
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_C65-32
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_C65-33
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_C65-34
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_C65-35
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_C65-36
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_C65-37
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_C65-38
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_C65-39
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_C65-41
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_C65-42
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_C65-43
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_C65-44
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_C65-45
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_C65-46
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_C65-47
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_F10-31[A]
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_F63-21[A]
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_F63-22[A]
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AB_F63-31[A]
	A

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	AFC_H63-101[F]
	F

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	SK-C164[3]
	3

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	SK-C165[3]
	3

	X3 AS CONSTRUCTED
	SK-C167[3]
	3

	Markup - SC33.07 -Additional Irrigation Conduits
	N/A
	N/A

	Markup - SC33.08 -Stage 2 Civil Stormwater
	N/A
	N/A

	Markup - SC33.10 -Main Works Irrigation Markup
	N/A
	N/A

	Markup - SC37.01 -Non Potable Water Pump Upgrade 
	N/A
	N/A

	Markup - SC37.02 -940KL Recycle -Fire Tank upgrade.
	N/A
	N/A

	Markup - SC37.03 -Potable Water Pump Upgrade - Option 2 80%
	N/A
	N/A

	Markup - SC37.04 -Potable Water Mains Upgrade
	N/A
	N/A

	Markup - SC37.05 - 400KL Potable Water Tank upgrade
	N/A
	N/A

	Markup - SC37.11 -Compound 7 DOWNPIPES
	N/A
	N/A

	Markup - SC37.12 Hot and Cold Water pipe size Increase SE 1-3 abd TH 1
	N/A
	N/A

	HYDRAULIC DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	3

	HYDRAULIC DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES SHEET 09
	drawing ____
	1

	HYDRAULIC DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	2

	HYDRAULIC DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	2

	HYDRAULIC DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	5

	HYDRAULIC DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	4

	HYDRAULIC DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	3

	drawing ____ [05] Branch 1 and Branch 2 markup
	N/A
	N/A

	EXISTING STORMWATER SERVICE PLAN
	document ____
	0

	EXISTING POTABLE WATER SERVICE PLAN
	document ____
	0

	EXISTING SEWAGE SERVICE PLAN
	document ____
	0

	Temporary Visitor Processing Presentation - STATE UPDATE 3
	N/A
	N/A

	Fire Block plan - Balanced Manifold.pdf
	N/A
	N/A










7. PRICING SCHEDULE 
7.1	PRICING SCHEDULE
The whole of the work under the Subcontract is priced as Lump Sum Items. Table 7.2 summarizes the cost of the Works and constitutes the Subcontract Sum inclusive all costs, charges, and mark-ups and including all the obligations in the Subcontract, of whatever nature whether stated or implied.
The description of work in Table 7.2 is not necessarily complete in all respects and reference should be made to the documents referred to in the Subcontract that are to be read in conjunction with this schedule.
The Pricing Schedule shall be deemed to include, but not be limited to, the following:
· All labour and supervision
· All plant, equipment and machinery
· All materials
· Customs Duty where applicable, and like charges
· All consumables
· All fees, licenses, royalties and the like
· All statutory on-costs, insurances and fixed costs
· All profit and overheads
· All other costs associated with the work under the Subcontract
7.2	PRICING SCHEDULE TABLE
	Item Ref
	Description of Work
	QTY
	UNIT
	Total Subcontract Value

	SC01
	PRELIMINARIES, PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC02
	SECURE BUILDING 1 (SE1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC03
	SECURE BUILDING 2 (SE2)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC04
	SECURE BUILDING 3 (SE3)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC05
	DETENTION UNIT BUILDING (DU)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC06
	SECURE ENTRY BUILDING (E2)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC07
	THERAPEUTIC COMMUNITY BUILDING (TH) (Identical to SE1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC08
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 1 (RE1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC09
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 2 (RE2)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC10
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 3 (RE3)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC11
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 4 (RE4)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC12
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 5 (RE5)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC13
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 6 (RE6)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC14
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 7 (RE7)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC15
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 8 (RE8)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC16
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 9 (RE9)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC17
	RESIDENTIAL ENTRY BUILDING (E1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC18
	TRANSITIONAL COMMUNITY BUILDING 1 (T1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC19
	TRANSITIONAL COMMUNITY BUILDING 2 (T2)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC20
	TRANSITIONAL COMMUNITY BUILDING 3 (T3)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC21
	TRANSITIONAL COMMUNITY BUILDING 4 (T4)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC22
	INDUSTRIES BUILDING (IN)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC23
	SPORTS HALL BUILDING 1 (SH1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC24
	SPORTS HALL BUILDING 2 (SH2)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC25
	KITCHEN and LAUNDRY BUILDING (KL)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC26
	VISITS BUILDING (VI)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC27
	MULTI FAITH BUILDING (MF)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC28
	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING (MH)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC29
	PRISONER PROCESSING and MEDICAL UNIT BUILDING (PP and MU)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC30
	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING (AD)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC31
	GATEHOUSE (GH)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC32
	REFURB EXISTING VISITOR PROCESSING  (EXISTING FACILITY - VP)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC33
	INFRASTRUCTURE
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC34
	CHILLER PLANT (X21)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC35
	WASTE WATER TREATMENT PLANT
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC36
	TEMPORARY SERVICES
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC37
	SCOPE GAP
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC38
	RE6 SUBSTATION  BUILDING (X22)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC39
	THE SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF NON-PICK CAULKING
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC40
	PASSIVE FIRE - THIRD PARTY CERTIFICATION
	1
	LS
	$____

	 
	Total Subcontract Sum 
	 
	 
	$____




7.3	TABLE OF VARIATION PRICE OPTIONS
	Item No.
	Description
	Rate
	Unit

	VPO-01
	4.16 (a) - New variable frequency drive recycled water pump
Supply and installation of new variable frequency drive recycled water pump set within existing main site pump house building X3 and interconnection with the existing recycled/fire water reticulation, allow for all temporary and out of hours connections associated with the new installation
	$____
	LS

	VPO-02
	4.16 (b) - New 980KL recycled /fire water storage tank
Supply and installation of new 940KL recycled /fire water storage tank. Allow for all interconnecting pipe work, inlets, outlet, high/low level alarms, overflows, access, chlorination flow and return connections to match the profile of the existing recycled/fire water storage tanks. Allow for all associated engineering and foundations required to construct the recycled/fire water storage tank. Tank to be designed and constructed in accordance with AS 2304-2011
	$____
	LS

	VPO-03
	4.16  (c) - Potable Water Pump Upgrade - Option 2 80%
Supply and installation of new variable frequency drive potable water pump set within existing main site pump house building X3 and interconnection with the existing potable water reticulation, allow for all temporary and out of hours connections associated with the new installation
	$____
	LS

	VPO-04
	4.16 (d) - Upgrade existing site potable water main
Install new potable water main along entry road from existing X3 building to Stage 2 Potable water connection as shown on Drawings.
	$____
	LS

	VPO-05
	4.16 (e) - New 400 KL potable water storage tank
Supply and installation of new 400 KL potable water storage tank. Allow for all interconnecting pipe work, inlets, outlet, high/low level alarms, overflows, access, chlorination flow and return connections to match the profile of the existing potable water storage tanks. Allow for all associated engineering and foundations required to construct the potable water storage tank. Tank to be designed and constructed in accordance with AS 2304-2011
	$____
	LS

	VPO-06
	4.16 (f) - Hot and cold water pipe size increase SE-1, SE-2, SE-3 and TH-1
	$____
	LS

	VPO-07
	4.16 (g) - Additional thirty (30) sewer manholes (1050 diameter) at an average depth of 1.5-2.0m deep
	$____
	LS

	VPO-08
	4.16 (h) - BMS capable Site boundary gas meter (140kPa x 42,265mj/day capacity)
	$____
	LS

	VPO-09
	4.16 (i) - Amended potable water tanks and fire/ recycled water tanks suction configuration.
	$____
	LS

	VPO-10.1
	Inboard Sewer Branch 1
	$____
	LS

	VPO-10.2
	Inboard Sewer Branch 2
	$____
	LS




7.4	TABLE OF LABOUR AND MARK-UP RATES (FOR VARIATIONS)
	Item No.
	Description
	Rate
	Unit

	LABOUR RATES

	SOR-01
	Labour / Trades Assistant / Plant Operator
	$____
	HR

	SOR-02A
	1st Year Apprentice
	$____
	HR

	SOR-02B
	2nd Year Apprentice
	$____
	HR

	SOR-02C
	3rd Year Apprentice
	$____
	HR

	SOR-02D
	4th Year Apprentice
	$____
	HR

	SOR-03
	Tradesperson
	$____
	HR

	SOR-04
	Leading Hand
	$____
	HR

	SOR-05
	Supervisor / Foreman
	$____
	HR

	SOR-06
	Project Manager
	$____
	HR

	SOR -07
	QA / Engineer
	$____
	HR

	SOR-08
	Hydraulic Engineer/Designer
	$____
	HR

	SOR-09
	Revit Designer
	$____
	HR

	SOR-10
	Draftsperson
	$____
	HR

	PLANT & EQUIPMENT RATES (DRY RATE - ON SITE EQUIPMENT ONLY)

	SOR-011
	4T - 6T Excavator & Attachments 
	$____
	HR

	SOR-012
	7T - 10T Excavator & Attachments 
	$____
	HR

	SOR-013
	11T - 14T Excavator & Attachments 
	$____
	HR

	SOR-014
	15T - 24T Excavator & Attachments 
	$____
	HR

	SOR-015
	Skid Steer Loader 
	$____
	HR

	SOR-016
	Front End Loader
	$____
	HR

	SOR-017
	10T - 14T Tipper Truck 
	$____
	HR

	SOR-018
	10kl - 14kl Water Truck 
	$____
	HR


Site Labour Rate shall include but not be limited to the following costs:
· Wages incl loadings, allowances in accordance with any enterprise or site agreement relating to conditions of employment in connection with the Site or the Project; 
· Fringe benefits or other benefits;
· Redundancy;
· Leave (such as sick, annual, long service and public holidays) and superannuation;
· Taxes, insurances, allowances;
· Travel time / allowances to and from the Site daily and for R&R;
· Communication support costs (such as site radios, computer hardware/software, IT, site phones and mobile phones);
· Any Subcontractor charges;
· All other costs necessary to complete the Works; and
· Off-Site Overhead and profit to include for all costs, overhead and profit in connection therewith, including any allowances.
Site Labour Rate measurement is to be to the nearest quarter hour as verified by the builder Representative approved daily timesheets. 

7.5	TABLE OF VARIATION RATES 
	ITEM NO
	Description
	Rate
	Unit

	SOR-19
	Ø15 Type B copper pipework including bends fittings and clips
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-20
	Ø15 Type B copper pipework including bends fittings and clips insulated
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-21
	Ø20 Type B copper pipework including bends fittings and clips
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-22
	Ø20 Type B copper pipework including bends fittings and clips insulated
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-23
	Ø25 Type B copper pipework including bends fittings and clips
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-24
	Ø25 Type B copper pipework including bends fittings and clips insulated
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-25
	Ø32 Type B copper pipework including clips 
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-26
	Ø32 Type B copper pipework including clips insulated
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-27
	Ø32 Type B copper bends  
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-28
	Ø32 Type B copper tees 
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-29
	Ø32 Type B copper bends  insulated
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-30
	Ø32 Type B copper tees insulated
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-31
	Ø40 Type B copper pipework including clips
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-32
	Ø40 Type B copper pipework including clips insulated
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-33
	Ø40 Type B copper bends  
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-34
	Ø40 Type B copper tees 
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-35
	Ø40 Type B copper bends insulated
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-36
	Ø40 Type B copper tees insulated
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-37
	Ø50 Type B copper pipework including clips
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-38
	Ø50 Type B copper pipework including clips insulated
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-39
	Ø50 Type B copper bends  
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-40
	Ø50 Type B copper tees 
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-41
	Ø50 Type B copper bends  insulated
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-42
	Ø50 Type B copper tees insulated
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-43
	Ø65 Type B copper pipework including clips
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-44
	Ø65 Type B copper pipework including clips insulated
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-45
	Ø65 Type B copper bends  
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-46
	Ø65 Type B copper tees 
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-47
	Ø65 Type B copper bends insulated
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-48
	Ø65 Type B copper tees insulated
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-49
	Ø80 Type B copper pipework including clips
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-50
	Ø80 Type B copper pipework including clips insulated
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-51
	Ø80 Type B copper bends  
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-52
	Ø80 Type B copper tees 
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-53
	Ø80 Type B copper bends insulated
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-54
	Ø80 Type B copper tees insulated
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-55
	Ø100 Type B copper pipework including clips
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-56
	Ø100 Type B copper bends  
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-57
	Ø100 Type B copper tees 
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-58
	Ø150 Type B copper pipework including clips
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-59
	Ø150 Type B copper bends  
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-60
	Ø150 Type B copper tees 
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-61
	Ø16 Pex PN 16 pipework including bends fittings and clips
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-62
	Ø20 Pex PN 16 pipework including bends fittings and clips
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-63
	Ø25 Pex PN 16 pipework including bends fittings and clips
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-64
	Ø32 Pex PN16 pipework including bends fittings and clips
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-65
	Ø15 above ground resilient seated ball valve
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-66
	Ø20 above ground resilient seated ball valve
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-67
	Ø25 above ground resilient seated ball valve
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-68
	Ø32 above ground resilient seated ball valve
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-69
	Ø40 above ground resilient seated ball valve
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-70
	Ø50 above ground resilient seated ball valve
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-71
	Ø65 above ground resilient seated ball valve
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-72
	Ø80 above ground resilient seated gate/butterfly valve
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-73
	Ø100 above ground resilient seated gate/butterfly valve
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-74
	Ø150 above ground resilient seated gate/butterfly valve
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-75
	Ø20 above ground approved gas ball valve
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-76
	Ø25 above ground approved gas ball valve
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-77
	Ø32 above ground approved gas ball valve
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-78
	Ø40 above ground approved gas ball valve
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-79
	Ø50 above ground approved gas ball valve
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-80
	Ø65 above ground approved gas ball valve
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-81
	Ø32 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded installed at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-82
	Ø32 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-83
	Ø32 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded tee
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-84
	Ø40 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded installed at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-85
	Ø40 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-86
	Strobe light (OWS)
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-87
	Ø50 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded installed at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-88
	Ø50 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-89
	Ø50 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded tee
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-90
	Ø63 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded installed at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-91
	Ø63 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-92
	Ø63 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded tee
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-93
	Ø75 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded installed at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-94
	Ø75 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-95
	Ø75 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded tee
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-96
	Ø90 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded installed at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-97
	Ø90 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-98
	Ø90 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded tee
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-99
	Ø110 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded installed at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-100
	Ø110 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-101
	Ø110 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded tee
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-102
	Ø160 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded installed at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-103
	Ø160 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-104
	Ø160 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded tee
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-105
	Ø180 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded installed at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-106
	Ø180 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-107
	Ø180 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded tee
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-108
	Ø200 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded installed at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-109
	Ø200 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-110
	Ø200 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded tee
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-111
	Ø225 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded installed at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-112
	Ø225 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-113
	Ø225 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded tee
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-114
	Ø250 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded installed at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-115
	Ø250 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-116
	Ø250 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded tee
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-117
	Ø280 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded installed at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-118
	Ø280 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-119
	Ø280 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded tee
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-120
	Ø315 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded installed at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-121
	Ø315 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-122
	Ø315 PE 100 SDR 11 butt welded tee
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-123
	Ø32 below ground resilient seated ball valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-124
	Ø40 below ground resilient seated ball valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-125
	Ø50 below ground resilient seated ball valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-126
	Ø65 below ground resilient seated ball valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-127
	Ø80 below ground resilient seated sluice valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-128
	Ø100 below ground resilient seated sluice valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-129
	Ø150 below ground resilient seated sluice valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-130
	Ø200 below ground resilient seated sluice valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-131
	Ø250 below ground resilient seated sluice valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-132
	Ø280 below ground resilient seated sluice valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-133
	Ø315 below ground resilient seated sluice valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-134
	Ø20 below ground gas valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-135
	Ø25 below ground gas valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-136
	Ø32 below ground gas valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-137
	Ø40 below ground gas valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-138
	Ø50 below ground gas valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-139
	Ø65 below ground gas valve incl valve box and cover complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-140
	External FH completed with cupboard on concrete base installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-141
	External 36m FHR completed with cupboard on concrete installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-142
	Internal 36m FHR installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-143
	Ø20 Water Meter installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-144
	Ø25 Water Meter installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-145
	Ø32 Water Meter installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-146
	Ø40 Water Meter installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-147
	Ø50 Water Meter installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-148
	Ø65 Water Meter installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-149
	Ø80 Water Meter installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-150
	Ø100 Water Meter installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-151
	Ø20 Gas meter
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-152
	Ø25 Gas meter
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-153
	Ø32 Gas meter
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-154
	Ø40 Gas meter
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-155
	Ø20 2nd Stage Reg and OPSO 
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-156
	Ø25 2nd Stage Reg and OPSO 
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-157
	Ø32 2nd Stage Reg and OPSO 
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-158
	Ø40 2nd Stage Reg and OPSO 
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-159
	Ø20 RPZD installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-160
	Ø25 RPZD installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-161
	Ø32 RPZD installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-162
	Ø40 RPZD installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-163
	Ø50 RPZD installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-164
	Ø80 RPZD installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-165
	Ø100 RPZD installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-166
	Ø20 DCV installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-167
	Ø25 DCV installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-168
	Ø32 DCV installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-169
	Ø40 DCV installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-170
	Ø50 DCV installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-171
	Ø80 DCV installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-172
	Ø100 DCV installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-173
	Ø15 TMV installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-174
	Ø20 TMV installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-175
	Ø15 TV installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-176
	Ø20 TV installed
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-177
	225mm uPVC SN8 SEW installed complete at average 2.0m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-178
	225mm uPVC SN8 SEW bends
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-179
	225mm uPVC SN8 SEW junctions
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-180
	150mm uPVC SN8 SEW installed complete at average 1.5m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-181
	150mm uPVC SN8 SEW bends
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-182
	150mm uPVC SN8 SEW junctions
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-183
	100mm uPVC SN8 SEW installed complete at average 1.5m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-184
	100mm uPVC SN8 SEW bends
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-185
	100mm uPVC SN8 SEW junctions
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-186
	100mm uPVC SN8 SEW Articulated expansion joints
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-187
	65mm uPVC SEW  installed complete at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-188
	65mm uPVC SN8 SEW bends
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-189
	65mm uPVC SN8 SEW junctions
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-190
	50mm uPVC SEW installed complete at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-191
	50mm uPVC SN8 SEW bends
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-192
	50mm uPVC SN8 SEW junctions
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-193
	40mm uPVC SEW installed complete at average 0.8m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-194
	40mm uPVC SN8 SEW bends
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-195
	40mm uPVC SN8 SEW junctions
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-196
	1100dia Sewer Manhole 2.0m to 2.5 installed complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-197
	300mm Sewer Maintenance Shaft 2.0m Installed complete
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-198
	225mm uPVC SN8 SW installed complete at average 1.5m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-199
	225mm uPVC SN8 SW bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-200
	225mm uPVC SN8 SW juction
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-201
	150mm uPVC SN8 SW installed complete at average 1.5m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-202
	150mm uPVC SN8 SW bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-203
	150mm uPVC SN8 SW juction
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-204
	100mm uPVC SN8 SW installed complete at average 1.5m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-205
	100mm uPVC SN8 SW bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-206
	100mm uPVC SN8 SW juction
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-207
	900 x 900 precast grated SW pit installed complete average depth 1.2m to 1.8m
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-208
	900 x 600 precast grated SW pit installed complete average depth 0.9m to 1.2m
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-209
	600 x 600 precast grated SW pit installed complete average depth 0.6m to 0.9m
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-210
	150mm HDPE TW installed complete at average 1.5m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-211
	150mm HDPE bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-212
	150mm HDPE junction
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-213
	100mm HDPE TW installed complete at average 1.5m deep
	$____ 
	M

	SOR-214
	100mm HDPE bend
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-215
	100mm HDPE junction
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-216
	65mm HDPE TW installed complete at average 0.8m deep
	N/A
	M

	SOR-217
	65mm HDPE bend
	N/A
	per

	SOR-218
	65mm HDPE junction
	N/A
	per

	SOR-219
	50mm HDPE TW installed complete at average 0.8m deep
	N/A
	M

	SOR-220
	50mm HDPE bend
	N/A
	per

	SOR-221
	50mm HDPE junction
	N/A
	per

	SOR-222
	40mm HDPE TW including fittings installed complete at average 0.8m deep
	N/A
	M

	SOR-223
	40mm HDPE bend
	N/A
	per

	SOR-224
	40mm HDPE junction
	N/A
	per

	SOR-225
	50mm tundish trapped direct to drain 
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-226
	50 Tundish connect to floor waste Gully
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-227
	Not used
	Not Used
	

	SOR-228
	Ø20 Core Hole
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-229
	Ø25 Core Hole
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-230
	Ø32 Core Hole
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-231
	Ø40 Core Hole
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-232
	Ø50 Core Hole
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-233
	Ø65 Core Hole
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-234
	Ø80 Core Hole
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-235
	Ø100 Core Hole
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-236
	Ø150 Core Hole
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-237
	Ø40 Fire Stop Collar
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-238
	Ø50 Fire Stop Collar
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-239
	Ø65 Fire Stop Collar
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-240
	Ø80 Fire Stop Collar
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-241
	Ø100 Fire Stop Collar
	$____ 
	per

	SOR-242
	Ø150 Fire Stop Collar
	$____ 
	per



A bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, do not form part of this Subcontract, save to the extent that it is used by the builder to value variations under this Subcontract. 
Notwithstanding that any bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, may be in error in that it may contain an item which should not have been included therein or may omit an item which should have been included therein or that it contains any other error, ambiguity, inconsistency or omission, the subcontractor:
· will have no claim against the builder with respect thereto;
· hereby releases the builder from any claim, demand, suit, cause of action or proceeding in connection with any bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the variation rates contained at Item 7.5.
Each item of the bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the variation rates at Item 7.5 will, without limiting the generality thereof, be deemed to be priced to include:
· labour and all costs and on costs in connection therewith;
· all plant, equipment (including access equipment) and machinery;
· materials and goods, and all costs in connection with handling, conveyance, delivery, unloading, storing, returning, packaging, hoisting and the like;
· waste of material;
· establishment costs, overhead costs (on site and off site) and profits; and
· all necessary attendance (including, without limiting the generality, taking delivery; unloading and assistance in unloading; getting in; storing; protecting; providing all necessary labour in relation to; provision of water and electricity; providing scaffolding in position for all purposes; and all sanitary and messing accommodation).
The builder will have no liability to the subcontractor by reason of any acceptance, approval or other endorsement of whatever nature in connection with any bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, and the subcontractor will have no claim in connection with the same.
Quantities in a bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, are estimated quantities only.
The builder is not required to give a direction by reason of the actual quantity of an item required to perform the Works being greater or less than the quantity shown in a bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5.
Neither the supply by the builder of any bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, for tender purposes nor anything in, or in relation to, any such bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, will prevent the builder from requiring the Works to be varied.








8. PROGRAMMING REQUIREMENTS
8.1 GENERAL PROGRAMMING REQUIREMENTS
Refer to clause 33.2 of the Subcontract for construction program requirements.
In addition to this, the Subcontractor’s construction program shall be submitted in electronic (native file) copy form using a computer software package approved by the builder. Unless approved otherwise in writing by the builder, the only software packages accepted are:
1. Primavera P6
1. Microsoft Projects
1. Microsoft Excel






Common Cell Riser Main Frame (CCRMF)
Responsibility Matrix
Table 1 below indicates the services responsibility matrix for the common services cell riser;
	Scope
	Discipline

	Provision and accurate location of all incoming services
	By relevant service subcontractor

	Sanitary Plumbing
	Hydraulics

	Water supply
	Hydraulics

	Water Management System 
	Hydraulics

	Water Management System Back Bone Cabling
	Hydraulics

	Power supply/ GPO
	Electrical

	Fire suppression
	Fire

	Fire detection (VESDA)
	Fire

	Toilet Exhaust 
	Mechanical

	Supply air Snorkel free area calculation and verification
	Mechanical

	Duress Alarms
	Security

	Common Cell Riser Main Frame
	Hydraulics

	Cell Riser Services Fixings
	Supplied by respective service subcontractor and fitted by Hydraulics

	Transport, cranage and installation of Common Cell Riser
	Hydraulics

	Lead services cell riser coordination.
	Hydraulics

	Final connection of services 
	By relevant service subcontractor

	Manufacturing location of Common Cell Riser to be advised by Hydraulics Subcontractor
	Respective service subcontractor to allow skilled labour at Hydraulics common cell riser construction facility (with the exception as outlined in A-1.1 Common Cell Riser Main Frame)


A-1.1	Common Cell Riser Main Frame
(a) Common Cell Riser Main Frame (CCRMF) is to be constructed by the Hydraulics Subcontractor for both two storey and single storey buildings. The Hydraulics Subcontractor shall provide third party design and certification by a Registered Professional Engineer of Queensland (RPEQ) engineer for structural and lifting adequacy; and
(b) Where the works does not require a licenced tradesperson to carry out the works, the services subcontractors will free issue to the Hydraulics Subcontractor any proprietary bracketing, cable tray and the like for the Hydraulics Subcontractor to install within the CCRMF. The Hydraulics Subcontractor will be responsible for the installation of all fixings required to secure the free issued material to the CCRMF.	Comment by reviewer: Reviewer added new detail to hydraulics. the reviewers to copy through all SOWS.





A-1.2	Shop Drawing Deliverables and Coordination
(a) The Hydraulics Subcontractor is responsible for the shop drawing lead to fully coordinated the services design of the CCRMF;
(b) The services subcontractors shall provide the Hydraulics Subcontractor continual design/ shop drawings updates as directed by the Hydraulics Subcontractor and the builder until the design model is 100% clash free;
(c) Installation shall not proceed on any section of works until 100% clash free coordination has been signed off by the builder and all services subcontractors; and
(d) Any rectification works, changes, or modifications required either at the manufacturing facility or on site due to lack of coordination, poor workmanship or failing to maintain program, will be carried out by the respective subcontractor free of charge (except for free issued items as outlined in A-1.1 Common Cell Riser Main Frame).
A-1.3	Prototype
(a) The Hydraulics Subcontractor is to manufacture a prototype of the double storey cell duct and CCRMF for sign of by the builder and the relevant services subcontractor prior to full production of the CCRMF. 
A-1.4	Services Installation/Sequencing
(a) The Hydraulics Subcontractor is responsible for providing the facility for the construction of the CCRMF. The location of the facility is to be located within 125km radius of the Project; 
(b) The Hydraulics Subcontractor shall ensure the facility is secure, undercover, has adequate parking, sanitary and lunch facilities, and general purpose power. The facility is to allow the services subcontractors to place a minimum of 2 lockable containers to store tools and materials outside of working hours. The manufacturing facility shall also have a forklift to allow loading and unloading of deliveries. The builder is to inspect and approve the manufacturing facility prior to commencement of the manufacturing of the CCRMF;
(c) Hydraulics Subcontractor to provide the builder and the services subcontractors with a detailed construction program that aligns with the Construction Programme;	Comment by reviewer: @reviewer fyi new change for fire
(d) All services subcontractors shall ensure they provide sufficient labour and materials to maintain the Construction Programme; and 
(e) The completed CCRMF shall be weather protected (wrapped), transported to site and lifted and secured into place by the Hydraulics Subcontractor.
A-1.5	Testing 
(a) The services subcontractors shall test all services in accordance with their relevant engineering specification and Australian Standards prior to delivery to site. All tests are to be witnessed and ITP’s signed off by a builder representative before any site installation takes place.
A-1.6	Facility Amenities.	Comment by reviewer: Reviewers please reformat this.
(a) The Hydraulics Subcontractor shall provide facilities (toilets, first aid, kitchen amenities, cribs etc) for all other services to utilise. Up to 20 personnel is to be allowed for.
Design Responsibility Matrix
The following table is provided as guidance to the division of responsibility for design of the Works:
	Area
	Schematic Design, Design Development and IFC
	Shop Drawings and As Constructed
	Approval By

	Design Drawings & Schematics 
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Sizing of Plant and Equipment 
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Plant Layout and Plantroom sizes. 
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Riser Sizes and layout
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Authority Fees and Approvals
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Ductwork Sizes and layout
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Pipework sizing and layout
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Hydraulic Services Switchboards, associated equipment, controls, and wiring.
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Controls system 
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Co-ordination of Service Design
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Sample Approvals
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Testing and Commissioning
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Certification of design & installation
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Workshop Drawings
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Design Calculations
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	As Built Documentation
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Co-ordinated Fire Control strategy and documentation.
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder

	Warranties
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/ Consultant/ the builder



Building Works/Interface Responsibility Matrix
Note: ‘X’ indicates responsible party.
Interface Works with the builder 
*the builder in the table below refers to other contractors
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Hydraulics
	The builder*

	 
	Coordination
	 
	 

	C-1.01
	Connections and coordination to other services and the like.
	X
	 

	C-1.02
	Full flexibility during the coordination, execution, and completion of works as requested by the builder.
	X
	 

	 
	General Penetrations etc.
	 
	 

	C-1.03
	All openings/penetrations through the building stucture/precast walls, roof etc for the passage of services related to Hydraulics services

	X
	

	C-1.04
	Shop drawing showing location of penetrations >Ø50
	X
	 

	C-1.05
	All penetrations equal to or less than 50mm on site can be drilled/cored on site in accordance with the builder drilling permit.
	X
	 

	C-1.06
	Cutting, patching, trimming, and making good of the building structure and ceilings for the installation of ductwork, pipework, air terminal devices, and the like, based on the installation taking place in accordance with the building program.
	X
	 

	C-1.07
	Opening locations are to be detailed by the Subcontractor and provided in time to meet the Construction Programme. If information is not provided in time to meet Construction Programme, any openings which are required post construction of element will be at Subcontractor’s expense.
	X
	 

	C-1.08
	Seal all ductwork, pipe penetrations and the like to air seal for airtight shafts and plenums.
	X
	 

	C-1.09
	Supply and install all sleeves, holding bolts, conduits and any other fixings required to be built in during construction and fixed into formwork prior to concrete pour.
	X
	 

	C-1.10
	Cast in all conduits (exposed conduits shall be avoided) and coordinate cast-ins, penetrations, and the like to the formwork/ structure system.
	X
	 

	C-1.11
	Make all roof penetrations and water proofing of those roof penetrations to the satisfaction of the builder.
	X
	 

	C-1.12
	Provision of steel angle bunding around all floor penetrations.
	X
	 

	C-1.13
	Bunding and sealing of floor penetrations.
	X
	 

	C-1.14
	Floor membrane subcontractor to integrate.
	 
	X

	C-1.15
	Provision of non-pick sealant around/ under all Subcontractor installed items where required by security classification.
	X
	 

	 
	Safety Mesh
	 
	 

	C-1.16
	Installation of safety mesh in penetrations through suspended floors apart from Common Services Riser.
	 
	X

	C-1.17
	Installation of safety mesh in penetrations in Common Services Riser.
	X
	 

	C-1.18
	Clearing penetrations for the use by the Subcontractor of safety mesh and the erection and maintenance of barricades and penetration covers to these penetrations.
	X
	 

	 
	Set Out
	 
	 

	C-1.19
	Set out lines of main building grid lines, two lines in two directions & a datum per floor.
	 
	X

	C-1.20
	The Subcontractor shall satisfy himself as to the correctness of all building elements prior to commencement of Works. Commencement of work is deemed to be acceptance of preceding works.
	X
	 

	C-1.21
	The Subcontractor shall notify the builder of all incorrect set out and site measures 48 hours prior to commencement.
	X
	 

	C-1.22
	The Subcontractor shall allow to site measure all works prior to manufacture or procurement as deemed necessary to successfully execute the works.
	X
	 

	 
	Ceilings
	 
	 

	C-1.23
	Installation of ceiling tiles and access panels to the construction program, allowing access for commissioning purposes for an agreed period.
	 
	X

	C-1.24
	Handling of ceiling tiles and access panels outside of construction program and replacement of those damaged will be performed by the ceiling & Partitions subcontractor at the Subcontractor’s expense.
	X
	 

	C-1.25
	Coordinate with the ceiling Subcontractor to ensure the installation of the Pipeworks and isolation valves do not affect the integrity of the ceiling system. (i.e. clashes with main runner).
	X
	 

	C-1.26
	Ensure that no cables, duct, pipework, and the like are resting on the ceiling grid and tiles.
	X
	 

	 
	Access Panels
	 
	 

	C-1.27
	Subcontractor to provide access panel locations for adjustment and maintenance of equipment (on BIM) to the builder for consultants to detail on IFC architectural RCP drawings. 
	X
	 

	C-1.28
	Access openings in ceilings, bulkheads, walls and at other positions to IFC architectural RCP drawings.
	 
	X

	 
	Floors
	 
	 

	C-1.29
	Waterproof floor toppings if required.
	 
	X

	 
	Plinths (Plinths with formed galvanized steel edges under all floor mounted equipment. Plinth height to suit condensate drain requirements of AS3666.)

	C-1.30
	Supply and installation of plinth surrounds and documentation and Setout of location, including securing to floor as required.
	X
	 

	C-1.31
	Concrete plinth, including plinths seismic construction requirements.
	 
	X

	C-1.32
	Waterproofing concrete if required.
	 
	X

	C-1.33
	Dust seal if required.
	X
	 

	 
	Flashing to all ducts, pipes and flues penetrating building exterior

	C-1.34
	Set out/ detailing.
	X
	 

	C-1.35
	Cutting roof/ exterior cladding (if required).
	 
	X

	C-1.36
	Under flashing.
	 
	X

	C-1.37
	Over flashing.
	X
	 

	C-1.38
	Support from structure.
	 
	X

	 
	Fire and Smoke Rating
	 
	 

	C-1.39
	Provision of fire rated shafts for vertical distribution where detailed.
	 
	X

	C-1.40
	Clear openings (for fire dampers) in walls within schedule to details provided in good time by Subcontractor.
	 
	X

	C-1.41
	Fire and smoke rating of penetrations and ductwork where required.
	X
	 

	C-1.42
	Sealing of penetrations incl inside conduits & ducts as required.
	X
	 

	C-1.43
	Supply and installation of fire collars and smoke dampers.
	X
	 

	C-1.44
	Certificate of all fire and smoke penetrations and associated equipment
	X
	 

	 
	Acoustic Rating
	 
	 

	C-1.45
	Provision of acoustic walls & ceilings.
	 
	X

	C-1.46
	Clear openings in acoustic walls to details provided by Subcontractor.
	 
	X

	C-1.47
	Acoustical rating of pipework and penetrations.
	X
	 

	C-1.48
	Seal Penetrations, incl inside conduits & ducts as required
	X
	 

	 
	Pipe Sleeves, holding down bolts and the like
	 
	 

	C-1.49
	Supply of components and setout drawings.
	X
	 

	C-1.50
	Building into structure any pre-positioned fittings.
	 
	X

	C-1.51
	Sealing between service, sleeve & penetration.
	X
	 

	C-1.52
	Supply & installation of sleeve.
	X
	 

	 
	Ventilation Grilles
	 
	 

	C-1.53
	Supply of ventilation grilles where required for example BWU’s.
	X
	 

	C-1.54
	Installation of grilles.
	 
	X

	C-1.55
	Undercutting doors 20mm as nominated by Subcontractor.
	 
	X

	 
	Painting
	 
	 

	C-1.56
	Subcontractor’s installation as required / specified.
	X
	 

	C-1.57
	Plant Rooms (Structure Only), general building interiors.
	 
	X

	 
	Plenums / Plantrooms
	 
	 

	C-1.58
	Provision of plant room and/or cupboards constructed of rendered brickwork or set plasterboard walls to the acoustic specification requirements.
	 
	X

	C-1.59
	Acoustic sealing of Subcontractor's penetrations in Plant Rooms and/or cupboards.
	X
	 

	C-1.60
	Provision of permanent service walkways/ steps etc. to allow safe access to mechanical plant.
	 
	X

	C-1.61
	Provision of acoustic louvres, and screens around Subcontractor's plant.
	 
	X

	C-1.62
	Construction of rooms, chambers, or cupboards for the accommodation of the following equipment – electrical plant, mechanical plant, fire plant, hydraulic plant, culverts & cover plates
	 
	X

	 
	Insulation
	 
	 

	C-1.63
	Supply and installation of insulation to the Subcontractor's service
	X
	 

	 
	General Services
	 
	 

	C-1.64
	General lighting and temporary power for construction purposes.
	 
	X

	C-1.65
	Water, gas, and electricity for the commissioning and test running of the plant
	 
	X

	C-1.66
	Task lighting for construction purposes
	X
	 

	 
	Protection of Equipment
	 
	 

	C-1.67
	Bollards, protection frames, hazard signs & markings protecting ductwork
	X
	 

	C-1.68
	Protection and maintenance of the Subcontractor's work and materials during the contract through to Practical Completion
	X
	 

	 
	Cleaning, Making Good & labelling
	 
	 

	C-1.69
	Making good of all damages to finishes whilst executing the works, to the satisfaction the builder.
	X
	 

	C-1.70
	Cleaning of all elements prior to, during and after installation.
	X
	 

	C-1.71
	Clean all finished products at a time as nominated by the builder.
	X
	 

	C-1.72
	Labelling of all items installed by Subcontractor.
	X
	 

	C-1.73
	Signage on doors to indicate function of room/ cupboard eg “Plant room”.
	 
	X

	 
	Materials handling
	 
	 

	C-1.74
	Unloading, hoisting and lifting and final positioning of Subcontractor's equipment/ plant/ materials
	X
	 

	C-1.75
	Monorail beams (if applicable) in accordance with location nominated by Subcontractor.
	 
	X

	C-1.76
	Horizontal movement of materials.
	X
	 

	C-1.77
	Scaffold (fixed or mobile) required by the Subcontractor.
	X
	 

	 
	Earth Works
	 
	 

	C-1.78
	Cutting, trenching, backfilling, compacting, and the reinstatement of surfaces and the like to successfully complete the works. Backfilling is to match the CBR of adjacent areas and may require engineered compaction.
	X
	 

	C-1.79
	All earth works are to be fully surveyed with drawings submitted to the builder
	 
	X

	C-1.80
	Responsibility for accuracy of as-built Drawings
	X
	 

	 
	Anti-Vehicle Ramming System (AVRS)
	 
	 

	C-1.81
	Supply and Install complete with rising step, drive cabinet, hydraulic power unit, control panel, control cabling, hydraulic piping.  Provide shop drawings to clearly show AVRS plus defining “associated works”.  Test and commission.
	 
	X

	C-1.82
	Supply and install control and monitoring cabling to the gatehouse comms room and leave tails where directed by the security subcontractor for remote control and monitoring by security operator in the gatehouse main control room.
	 
	X

	C-1.83
	Power supply to AVRS control cabinet by electrical trade.
	 
	X

	C-1.84
	All underground conduits for electrical and hydraulics between rising step and drive cabinet by electrical trade.
	 
	X

	C-1.85
	Pit drainage connected to stormwater by Hydraulic trade.
	X
	 

	C-1.86
	Excavation, structural pit and AVRS surrounds integrated into pavement design by structural concrete trade.  Vehicle bollards if required by bollard trade.
	 
	X

	 
	Demolition associated with Visitor Processing Building
	 
	 

	C-1.87
	Dilapidation survey of building complete with report and photo submission to the builder. Identify any concerns.
	X
	 

	C-1.88
	Identifying, labelling, and protecting all plant, pipework to be retained. 
	X
	 

	C-1.90
	Identifying, labelling, and protecting all plant, pipework to be demolished and removed from site. 
	X
	 

	C-1.91
	Where part of a pipe run is to be retained, remove a section of pipe and blank-off and protect existing pipe to be retained.
	X
	 

	C-1.92
	Remove from Site all items identified to be demolished and removed from site.   
	 
	X

	C-1.93
	Reinstate and certify no longer required penetrations through fire rated walls.
	 
	X

	C-1.94
	Reinstate cladding and roofing over no longer required penetrations through building exterior/ roof.
	 
	X



Interface Works with Common Services Trench (CST) Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Hydraulics
	CST

	C-2.01
	Provide ITPs plus all testing, commissioning, photographic records, technical data etc into the Operations and Maintenance manual
	 
	X

	C-2.02
	Leave CST pits/services connections in clean condition.  Provide internal and external photos of each pit and valve prior to any main works subcontractor entering/ using.
	 
	X

	C-2.03
	Just prior to Practical Completion of the Project, at a time agreed with the builder, install tamper-resistant security bolt fixings to pit lids and provide drivers as required to the builder.
	 
	X

	C-2.04
	Inspect pits/services connections before connection and or entry into any pit, noting any concerns. Note:  Pits will remain the responsibility of the CST subcontractor with respect to warranties.
	X
	 

	C-2.05
	Internally clean all pits (regardless of why the pits may have had dirt etc ingress) and make good any damage that may have occurred to any pit accessed by the Subcontractor before the lids are bolted down.   This includes touch-up paint if required on valves.
	X
	 







Interface Works with Electrical Services Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Hydraulics
	Electrical

	C-3.01
	Location for all power requirements and Loads to allow Electrical subcontractor to finalise submain sizes and confirm total power demand. The items are to include but not limited to the list below.
• New Potable Water Pumps
• Hot water units 
• Sewer pump stations 
• Hot water return circulating pumps 
• Water Management System
• Electronic tapware and 
• Gas solenoid valve.
	X
	 

	C-3.02
	Provision of all submains, lugs and cable glands and for submain terminations and provision of final connections of submains to all control panels. 
	 
	X

	C-3.03
	Coordinate and advise after final equipment selections the Maximum Demand for each hydraulic control panel to ensure correct submain cable selections for the respective control panel.
	X
	 

	C-3.04
	Coordinate for final location of Energy Metering System (EMS) for gas and water meters.
	X
	 

	C-3.05
	EMS cabling/conduits from gas and water meters back to EMS head end control to demonstrate facilities metering and consumptions in logical subdivisions.
	 
	X

	C-3.06
	Disconnection and safe termination of wiring of existing potable water pumps.
	 
	X

	C-3.07
	Disconnection and safe termination of wiring of existing non potable water pumps.
	 
	X

	C-3.08
	Connection and rewiring of the power supply from existing electrical board to new potable water control panel.
	 
	X

	C-3.09
	Connection and rewiring of the power supply from existing electrical board to new non potable water control panel.
	 
	X

	C-3.10
	Final connection form the Hydraulics control panel to the hydraulic equipment.
	X
	 

	C-3.11
	Precast factory conduit installation by electrical trade to shop drawing mark-ups by Subcontractor.  Refer this Scope of Works document section 3 “Precast Elements and Common Cell Riser Main Frames” for more details.
	X
	X

	C-3.12
	Cable installation between the gas solenoid and slam shut located in the officers post within the Kitchen and Laundry including termination and connection at either end.
	X
	 


Interface Works with Communications Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Hydraulics
	Comms

	C-4.01
	Cable management system for the WMS field cabling.
	X
	 

	C-4.02
	Passive data cabling as per clause 4.10.1.
	 
	X

	C-4.03
	WMS field cabling as per clause 4.10.1.
	X
	 

	C-4.04
	Patch leads for WMS field devices.
	X
	 

	C-4.05
	Patch leads within communication rooms.
	 
	X


Not Used
Not Used
Interface Works with Fire Services Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Hydraulics
	Fire

	C-7.01
	Provision of gas shut off solenoid and slam shut.
	X
	 

	C-7.02
	Wiring and connection to the FIP of gas shut off valve on sprinkler activation within each building.
	 
	X

	C-7.03
	Wiring and connection of the gas slam shut located within the officers post to the main gas solenoid.
	X
	 

	C-7.04
	Internal fire hydrant test drains with coupling to suit local fire brigade requirements.
	X
	 

	C-7.05
	External FH's and site fire/recycled water reticulation.
	X
	 

	C-7.06
	Internal Fire Hydrants and Fire hose reels.
	 
	X

	C-7.07
	Floor drainage, sumps and tundishes within the sprinkler valve rooms and or areas for the discharge of fire test water.
	X
	 

	C-7.08
	Fire sprinkler remote test drains.
	 
	X

	C-7.09
	Connection of fire drains from equipment to tundishes and pits.
	 
	X

	C-7.10
	Fire block plans.
	 
	X

	C-7.11
	Fire system testing (Flow test for the fire authority and Building Certification).
	 
	X

	C-7.12	Comment by reviewer: Hey reviewer, has these 2 been added to all SOW’s
	Deluge discharge test in secure wing and DU cells.
	
	X

	C-7.13
	Protection of own Works in preparation for the deluge discharge test.
	X
	 


Interface Works with Mechanical Services Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Hydraulics
	Mechanical 

	C-8.01
	Provision of LLI for showing status of equipment on BMS for (See BMS table).
	X
	 

	C-8.02
	Coordinate location and provision of open-end tundishes for all mechanical equipment.
	X
	 

	C-8.03
	Coordinate location and provision of cooling tower drains.
	X
	 

	C-8.04
	Provision of water and gas supply to mechanical plant. Terminate with valved branch.
	X
	 

	C-8.05
	Extension from valved branches and final connections of water supplies and gas supplies to mechanical equipment e.g. cooling towers, boilers.
	 
	X

	C-8.06
	BMS cabling from hydraulics monitoring equipment/control panels locations back to BMS controllers and specific BMS graphic screens.  
	 
	X

	C-8.07
	Provision of BMS terminal interfacing strip within hydraulics control panels.
	X
	 

	C-8.08
	Connection of mechanical drains from equipment to tundishes.
	 
	X

	C-8.09
	Stormwater drainage to the anti-vehicle ramming system pit at the gate house.
	X
	 


Interface Works with Kitchen and Laundry Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Hydraulics
	Kitchen / Laundry

	C-9.01
	Provision of drainage, water, and gas provisions in accordance with the Kitchen and Laundry consultants’ drawings. Water and Gas to terminate with suitably sized isolation valves. Drainage to be capped 150mm above FFL.
	X
	 

	C-9.02
	Coordinate location and provision of open-end tundishes for all kitchen and laundry equipment.
	X
	 

	C-9.03
	Provision and installation of all floor waste gullies/buckets traps as shown by the kitchen and laundry consultant.
	X
	 

	C-9.04
	Supply only trench, grates, and frames including bucket trap within the trench grate drainage outlet.
	 
	X

	C-9.05
	Installation of trench, grates, and frames including bucket trap within the trench grate drainage outlet.
	X
	 

	C-9.06
	Provision of all kitchen and laundry equipment, fixtures and fittings as nominated by the kitchen and laundry consultant.
	 
	X

	C-9.07
	Final connection of the water, gas and drainage, extension of tundish drains to the kitchen and laundry equipment, fixtures and fittings as nominated by the kitchen and laundry consultant.
	X
	 

	C-9.08
	Final test and commissioning of the kitchen and laundry equipment, fixtures and fittings as nominated by the kitchen and laundry consultant.
	 
	X


Interface Works with Waste Water Treatment Plant (WWTP) Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Hydraulic
	WWTP

	C-10.01
	Potable water supply
	X
	 

	C-10.02
	Fire water supply
	X
	 

	C-10.03
	Sanitary plumbing and drainage (Toilets, tea room and Laboratory only)
	X
	 

	C-10.04
	Stormwater drainage (Downpipe connections only)
	X
	 


Interface Works with Existing Plant
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Hydraulic
	Existing Plant

	C-11.01
	New Potable Water Pumps connection to existing potable water reticulation.
	X
	 

	C-11.02
	Disconnection and removal of existing potable water pump set.
	X
	 

	C-11.03
	New Non-Potable Water Pumps connection to existing Non potable water reticulation.
	X
	 

	C-11.04
	Disconnection and removal of existing non potable water pump set.
	X
	 


Principals Requirements for Completion Testing at the project
The attached flow chart has been extracted from Volume 4 of the Main Contract.

____

