2	AS 2545—1993


SCHEDULE 1A 	- SCOPE OF WORKS

1. SCOPE OF WORKS 

0. GENERAL
The Scope of Works comprises the Mechanical Services to the project as defined and in accordance with the requirements of:
0. This Scope of Works;
0. Subcontract Documents; and
0. The Subcontract and Schedules.
Unless specifically excluded herein.
Unless noted otherwise, the Scope of Works is to allow for the provision of all preliminaries, labour (1 labour assistant person per 14 trades personnel, or part thereof), supervision, materials, tools, plant, equipment, insurances and sundry items for the supply, documentation (e.g. shop drawings, O&M, QA etc.), design finalisation, installation, manufacture, transport and satisfactory completion of the Subcontract Works in accordance with the Subcontract Documents, all relevant statutory codes, codes of practice, Australian Standards and the National Construction Code (NCC).
For avoidance of doubt, the Scope of Works includes all items described in the Mechanical Services Specification as well as items listed, nominated, implied and/or shown on the Drawings and Other Documents relating to the Works unless specifically excluded herein. 
All requirements of the Subcontract Documents, including but not limited to the Drawings and Specification, are included in the Subcontract Sum, regardless of whether specifically identified in the pricing schedule, unless specifically identified as an exclusion.
References to the “Mechanical Subcontractor” or “services subcontractors” contained within this Scope of Works are to be interpreted as references to the Subcontractor.
References to the “Tenderer”, “Contractor”, “Builder” or the like contained in the Subcontract Documents, for the purposes of the Works, are to be interpreted as references to the Subcontractor.
In certain instances, there will be more than one subcontractor assigned to a Trade Package and as such, the builder reserves the right to add or remove to or from the Scope of Works of any subcontract package at its discretion.
OVERVIEW
This Scope of Works is to be read in conjunction with the Project Conditions which forms Schedule 1B of the Subcontract Agreement. The extent of the works shall include, but not be limited to, all the following sections:
(a) Design; 
(b) General Requirements;
(c) Trade Specific;
(d) Completion Requirements;
(e) Subcontract Documents;
(f) Pricing Schedule;
(g) Programming Requirements;
(h) Appendix A - Common Cell Riser Main Frame (CCRMF);
(i) Appendix B - Design Responsibility Matrix;
(j) Appendix C - Building Works/Interface Responsibility Matrix; and
(k) Appendix D - Principals Requirements for Completion Testing at the project.

1. DESIGN
Design – General Requirements
The Works shall include for the design, finalisation obligations, and engineering of the Mechanical Services.  Allow for the finalisation of the design and coordination with other trades for in building and under slab. The Drawings and Specifications illustrate the design intent of the Works. Design finalisation shall include but not be limited to:
(a) Review and confirmation of final design duct, pump size and pipe size calculations, to confirm that they are suitable for compliance with the Specification, and relative to the proposed requirements;
(b) Final selection of all materials and equipment in accordance with the Subcontract Documents which will be subject to review and approval by the consultant, the builder, and the Principal;
(c) Details of pit quantity and typical pit details for each pit type; 
(d) Layout drawings including routing with accuracy as required for coordination purposes;
(e) Details of interfaces with other services;
(f) Coordination with other services, to ensure all architectural, structural, civil and services items have been considered when completing the shop drawings;
(g) Hazardous zone compliance definition and design for flammable store and chemical store if nominated on Mechanical Drawings;
(h) The Subcontractor shall produce all design and documentation necessary to adequately and clearly document the Works including but not limited to drawings, 3D models, specifications, schedules, sketches, models, calculations, reports, workshop drawings and the like;
(i) The Subcontractor shall progress the design of the Works so as not to cause delay to the Construction Programme or to the work of other contractors;
(j) The Subcontractor will attend regular design meetings, workshops and reviews as required by the builder in a location determined by the builder;
(k) Plant and equipment layouts, sizing’s and dimensions, including provisions for maintenance access.  Maintenance access ways to be 2000H x 1000W as per NCC requirements.  AHU and equipment replacement pathways to be 2000H x 2000W.  All reductions in these zone allowances to be agreed with the builder before being incorporated into the design.  Note:  the Building Certifier has permitted limited incursions into the maintenance assess way widths in the services ways above cells in SE and TH; 
(l) Confirmation that all spatial and clearance requirements are adequate;
(m) Duct and pipe sizing and quantity layouts, distribution systems, equipment, spatial allocation, final coordination with all other building elements and trades;
(n) Reproduction of all mechanical single line diagrams and schematics by verification of system performance and capacities prior production of shop drawings; 
(o) Panel/ plant drawings and details;
(p) Whilst the Subcontractor is required to design to all performance and legislative requirements, design finalisation shall not entail the reduction of scope from that of the preliminary design intent (such as reducing sizes, capacities, aesthetics) without prior written approval from the builder; 
(q) The Subcontractor shall name shop drawings, models files and other documents file names and drawing numbers according to the project document naming convention;
(r) Confirmation that all selected materials and equipment are adequate for its intended use;
(s) Construction details;
(t) Production of coloured mechanical services PDF control drawings for approval in shaded/fully rendered duct and pipe appearance;
(u) Production of fully dimensioned penetration drawings for all structural slabs/walls and full height walls;
(v) Coordination, review, and finalisation of the BIM model; 
(w) Shop drawings which must be submitted to and approved by the builder, six weeks prior to fabrication or construction commencement;
(x) Labelling methodology and schedule;
(y) Input of data for Facility Maintenance register within the Operations and Maintenance manual of all assets that exceed $____ in value or are a mechanical device that requires periodical maintenance (excel spreadsheet to be provided periodically);
(z) Production of fully dimensioned fire collar, damper and fire penetration register;
(aa) As built and as constructed survey. As-built documents are to be provided progressively to the satisfaction of the builder, no later than a week after Substantial Completion of each building, or for infrastructure, no later than a week after Substantial Completion of the neighbourhood or site; 
(ab) Any alterations made to the For Construction drawings and site alterations must be captured within the model and as-built documentation; and
(ac)  In circumstances where the Subcontractor provides engineering input and value management into the design, the Subcontractor acknowledges that any associated change in design which impacts the Subcontractor's existing Scope of Works has been contemplated and allowed for. The Subcontractor further acknowledges that is has advised the builder of any related impact on other contractors.
Digital Engineering Requirements (BIM)
(a) Engage with the builder, consultants, and other contractors to deliver the Digital Engineering process;	Comment by reviewer: @reviewer who is the project team? Other contractors, the client, consultants?	Comment by reviewer: The Project team means whoever is a party to the model.  It includes consultants and other subcontractors.
(b) Design and document in accordance with the current version of the Digital Engineering Management Plan (DEMP) document ____;
(c) The Subcontractor will be supplied the latest model produced by the consultants to assist with their coordination and production of modelling and shop drawings. No responsibility will be taken by the builder for the quality of the model provided;
(d) Produce models in compliance with the LOD Matrix contained within the Digital Engineering Management Plan. When discussing Level of Development (LOD), the Digital Engineering Management Plan refers to the latest LOD Specification produced by BIMForum. The Subcontractor shall familiarise themselves with this document. For simplicity, it can be assumed:
(i) Shop Drawings – LOD400; and
(ii) As-Builts – LOD400;
(e) Update model to reflect any issued variations, changes in design or constructability issues. Changes to be captured in the model and on drawings within two weeks of receipt of notification;
(f) Provide a suitably qualified Project team capable of undertaking the design, modelling and coordination process;
(g) Provide an organisation chart identifying the proposed Project structure and governance, including Digital Engineering roles (BIM Lead, Model Authors etc.);
(h) Training of Subcontractor in the use of software to develop the 3D model to meet the Project requirement is the responsibility of the builder. The Subcontractor will be supplied the builder's Capability and Capacity Form, ‘document ____’ and the Subcontractor is to return this form with their Tender submission. The builder's Digital Engineering leads will organise a presentation so this Subcontractor can demonstrate their capability and capacity;
(i) The intention is to create a fully coordinated model in two stages in accordance with the Construction Programme:	Comment by reviewer: Check term
(i) Combined services in ground route and local discipline specific routes; and
(ii) Buildings including in ground reticulation from external to internal;
(j) The BIM federated services model will be used to create the coordinated ceiling plans in conjunction with the Architect. The Subcontractor is to show all access panel requirements including location of ceiling access panels; and	Comment by reviewer: Coordinated used 3 times
(k) The Subcontractor shall only work in Autodesk Revit (release as specified in the Digital Engineering Management Plan) and must have an active BIM360 subscription. No other format will be acceptable.
Lead Coordinator Roles
For the purposes of coordination, the lead subcontractor for each element will be as follows;
(a) The Mechanical Subcontractor shall be lead for BIM coordination for above slab Building services;
(b) The Mechanical Subcontractor shall be the lead for all works and layouts within plant rooms. The Architect shall provide a shell for the Mechanical Subcontractor to finalise plant layouts, floor waste locations, electrical switchboard locations within plant room etc;
(c) The Communications subcontractor is required to provide all rack, cable and communications equipment layouts for each communications room and cupboard to the Mechanical Subcontractor. The Mechanical Subcontractor shall then assume the lead role for these areas;
(d) The Hydraulics subcontractor shall be regarded as lead trade for BIM coordination for below slab and inground services;
(e) The Hydraulics subcontractor shall be regarded as lead trade for design coordination then off-site prefabrication, delivery to site then installation of the Common Cell services risers main frames;    
(f) The Mechanical Subcontractor is to develop and be responsible for the fire matrix plus be the lead in all fire matrix testing (except for the Gate House SER). This includes warm smoke testing in nominated locations. For the Gate House SER gas discharge system, the Fire Protection subcontractor is to develop and be responsible for the fire matrix, including being the lead for all associated fire matrix testing;
(g) The Mechanical Subcontractor is to be responsible for confirming scope of BMS interfaces with other contractors, type of interfaces and proving their operation. This will require a BMS operator to be present to confirm BMS interface operability when other contractors test their systems; and
(h) The Electrical subcontractor is to develop and be responsible for the testing and commissioning procedures and time program works associated with the new 11kV generator synchronising with the existing HV generators and HV network. Testing will involve power outages and all services subcontractors will be required to be in attendance of all test to confirm the operation of their respective systems and plant under various scenarios. The Electrical subcontractor will conduct as many power outages required during the testing, client witness testing and commissioning phases to satisfy both the builder and the Client that the standby generator power system is functioning in accordance with the project requirements. 

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
General
(a) Where there is a discrepancy within the Subcontract Documents, the Subcontractor shall ensure they have allowed all cost and compliance with the most onerous condition;
(b) The labour structure set-up on site used as a basis for creating the Construction Programme is that the builder and all trades will be dedicated to one of the following areas:
(i) Construction Group 1 – Secure buildings;
(ii) Construction Group 2 – Residential buildings;
(iii) Construction Group 3 – All other buildings (commonly named as “Support buildings”);
(iv) Construction Group 4 – Site wide works;
(c) The Construction Programme assumes that all activities – design, through construction and through commissioning and handover all have independent team structures for each of the above groups. This structure will be reflected in all activities e.g. Design co-ordination meetings and on-site subcontractor meetings;  
(d) Obvious work: Work of an obvious nature may not be documented. Any item or method of construction which is usual and proper, but not specifically mentioned shall be deemed to be included in the Works;
(e) Items shown on the drawings but not specified or vice versa shall be deemed to be included in the Works;
(f) The Subcontractor shall progress and complete the Works in accordance with (or earlier than) the Construction Programme;
(g) The Subcontractor shall allow for all out of sequence works and return visits necessary to complete the Works;
(h) The Subcontractor shall comply with all the builder Management Plans to the furthest extent they are applicable to the Works;
(i) The Subcontractor shall ensure compliance with the On-site Steel Welding Procedure;
(j) The Subcontractor shall allow for all return visits to co-ordinate the Works around penetrations formed by others;
(k) The Subcontractor shall co-ordinate and co-operate with the builder and all other contractors during the course of the Works;
(l) The Subcontractor shall use the document management system for all project communication, document control and transfer of information;  
(m) The Subcontractor shall allow for compliance with all Statutory Requirements and Approvals including the conditions and requirements attached to any Approval and compliance with the requirements of all relevant approving authorities to the furthest extent they are relevant to the Works, including and fees and costs associated (unless specifically excluded);
(n) The Subcontractor shall provide all survey and set-out required for the Works. Should the Subcontractor adopt set-out performed by others, the Subcontractor shall remain responsible for its accuracy;
(o) The Subcontractor shall be responsible for the protection of the Works until the Date of Substantial Completion;
(p) The Subcontractor must submit to the builder for approval, proposed products or materials to be utilised for temporary protection of the Works, prior to use. Approval by the builder will not negate the Subcontractor’s responsibility for any damage caused to the Works by use of those products or materials;
(q) The Subcontractor shall remove all installed temporary protection measures upon completion of the Works and leave the Works clean and free from any defects;
(r) The Subcontractor shall allow for the final trade cleaning of the Works;
(s) The Subcontractor shall ensure that all materials and fixings are suitable for use with those materials they come in contact with to eliminate corrosion or any other reaction caused by dissimilar metals; 
(t) The Subcontractor shall allow for the supply and installation of non-pick caulking and bedding to their installed items, where nominated on the Drawings or Specification;
(u) The Subcontractor shall protect adjoining works of other contractors;
(v) The Subcontractor shall be deemed to have inspected site and to have fully informed itself of the nature of the work under the Main Contract and the Subcontract;
(w) The Subcontractor is required to comply with obligations under the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Engagement Strategy, and provide the necessary framework to achieve a minimum of 3% inclusion for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in the area of employment;;  
(x) The Subcontractor has allowed for all site measurements, setting out and levelling their work as required; 
(y) It is the responsibility of the Subcontractor to ensure that they are working off the current Drawings, Specifications and other documents, and to ensure that they highlight any discrepancies or missing information that may exist. No claim for additional costs or extension of time will be considered as a result of the Subcontractor’s oversight in drawing amendments or planning;
(z) The Subcontractor shall provide fire sealing of all services penetrations that breach a dedicated fire barrier with a product approved by the builder. The Subcontractor will provide a fire penetration register for each building and third party certification (by a builder approved certifier) of the product used and the installation; 
(aa) If there is a conflict within the documents forming the Subcontract, it shall be deemed that the Subcontractor has allowed for the higher specification;
(ab) Seismic design signed off by third party registered structural engineer and installation of required restraints as required by the Specification and standards;
(ac) Exposed pipework/conduit in prisoner accessible areas is not permitted. However, if an exemption is granted, pipework/ conduits are to be provided with metal shrouds (minimum 3mm sheet metal with security fixings) to eliminate any contraband being hidden/ stored or reduced the potential for a ligature point;
(ad) Subcontractor to ensure they familiarise themselves with the structural drawings when tendering. The construction of suspended slabs varies across the site between insitu (traditional), bondek and precast base. It will be assumed that the subcontractor has made all necessary allowances for these differing construction methods; and
(ae) the builder is required to undertake a metal detection survey of the Site at various stages of the Project, to verify that there is no risk of buried metal objects being present at Practical Completion. The Subcontractor shall ensure that all metal objects (such as nails, screws, corrugated iron etc) are either disposed of in the waste bins provided, or removed from Site. Further to this, the Subcontractor is to carry out a clean sweep of its work front on a daily basis to ensure no metal objects remain. The Subcontractor is to ensure that this requirement is clearly communicated with its employees and secondary subcontractors. In the event that the Subcontractor fails to complete this task, the builder will carry this out on the Subcontractor's behalf and associated costs will be back charged to the Subcontractor; 
(af) The Subcontractor must supply and install mounting plates for corrugated profiles where installating fixtures against corrugated walls and ceilings, in accordance with all requirements of the Commonality of Engineering Services; 
(ag) The Subcontractor is responsible for the satisfactory removal of any marking paint they apply as part of the set out for their works. Additional care is to be taken to minimise or eliminate the use of spray paint on substrates to receive future vinyl finishes; and
(ah) The Subcontractor is required to provide routine HVAC maintenance of the Site accommodation.  This scope is to include monthly visual inspections of HVAC plant, cleaning and replacement of filters, re-gassing if required, general cleaning plus reporting of inspections and works done.
Interface with Works Already let at the project
An early works contract has been let for the Combined Services Trench (CST) around the Site perimeter.  The CST subcontractor’s responsibilities included provision of data including all test results into the electronic operation and maintenance manuals.  As part of this Scope of Works, the Subcontractor is to allow to connect to the CST works, and integrate all CST scope within any testing/ commissioning activities required.  The Subcontractor is required to check the integrity of all CST installation works including inspection of cleanliness inside pipes before integration with new works.  All associated costs to be included within this Subcontract.  Upon connection to the CST, the Subcontractor is deemed to have fully accepted the condition of the service and its extension to the Site.
Notes: The mechanical pits installed by CST are classified as a “confined space”.  Also, there are 3 x mechanical pits (pits 3, 4, 5) which currently clash with temporary haul roads or crane pads and will be temporarily finished 800mm below ground level.
The Subcontractor is required to produce an Inspection and Test Plan (ITP) for all works associated with integration and connection of all underground pipework to the chillers.  The expectation for the flushing process as part of this ITP is to be broadly as follows:
(a) CST subcontractor will leave all installed pipework full of water.  This water will have sat undisturbed for an extended period of time before the chillers will be brought on line;
(b) Chiller building substation to be energised and two or three of the secondary CH pumps (SCHWP-X21-01, SCHWP-X21-02, SCHWP-X21-03, SCHWP-X21-04) are to be connected to chilled water pipe infrastructure, complete with “temporary” dirt-air separator system and chiller bypass pipework.  Pumps to recirculate water in the CST pipework in one direction only at a minimum of 1.0m/ sec for a minimum of four hours and until no sediment in the return line is apparent;
(c) Then pumps to recirculate water in the CST pipework in the other direction for a minimum of four hours and until no sediment is apparent;
(d) Then pumps to recirculate water in the CST pipework with all underground pipework being progressively added to the flushing system.  Before a building is added, a flushing rig is to be set up in that building to flush both pipes back to the infrastructure pipework;
(e) In the above, all sediment is to be removed and filters cleaned at four hour intervals; and
(f) When flushing is complete, replace temporary dirt-air separator system with the permanent system, install chemical dosing and dose all water.  Note: permanent dirt-air separator system will not be permitted to be used for the above flushing.
Survey set out and as builts
(a) The Subcontractor shall allow for the services survey set out for all pits, pipes, bends, valves etc to facilitate the installation of their service; and
(b) Site recording of installed inground services, for the sole purpose of as-builts, will be carried out by the Managing Contractor’s surveyor. This includes the following however excludes below building slab services;
(i) Pipe invert and location; 
(ii) Pit invert, surface level and location; and
(iii) Fire hydrants;
(c) The Subcontractor is responsible for ensuring full coordination with the Managing Contractor’s surveyor to ensure all inground works are surveyed, prior to back filling or covering or closing of pits. Any cost associated with re-surveying works by the Managing Contactor’s Surveyor due to a lack of coordination by the Subcontractor will be charged to the Subcontractor. This does not limit the responsibility of the Subcontractor in any way and recording of As Built information remains the full responsibility of the Subcontractor; and
(d) Site recording of all remaining services installed by the Subcontractor is the responsibility of the Subcontractor.
Excavation
1. All trenching, excavation, vacuum excavation (where required by the builder permits), rock breaking, bedding, backfilling, and compaction to be to be in accordance with the Civil Specification; 
1. Allow for the existing ground conditions – refer to the Geotechnical Report;
1. Removal of all excess spoil from Site to locations approved by the builder. All spoil removal is to be tracked and recorded, with records provided to the builder for review upon request;
1. Excavation to facilitate the installation of pipes, pits, valves, warning tape etc. for the permanent installation as detailed;
1. Any pipe laid within the Mechanical services trench that may be impacted upon by UV exposure or climatic conditions, must be covered over with 300mm bedding material to protect the pipe until such time as the trench is back filled and compacted in accordance with the Civil Specification.  Additionally, other Mechanical service pipes not effected by UV exposure or climatic conditions are to be ‘weighed down’ by sandbags, spot filling or similar, until such time as the services trench is back filled in accordance with the Civil Specification;
1. Ensure where excavations cross any temporary roads and or paths they are reinstated to the same quality and condition, including compaction standard, prior to the excavation;
1. Provide services trench dewatering as required;
1. Supply and installation of all approved imported material for back filling the excavated works as required by the Civil Specification;
1. Installation of underground pipework to be as per the Potable Water Reticulation Management Handbook (document ____), the manufacturer’s instructions and or the Specification to which ever document has the most onerous outcome;
1. Installation of warning tape for all in ground services. Tape to match that installed by the CST trade and contain trace wire, brought up to the associated pit;
1. Protection and ongoing maintenance of in ground services that extend above ground; and
1. Where in ground connections are to be connected to above ground services, they shall rise up at their exact location and be capped ready for above ground connection at a later stage.
Pits and Pit Lid Security
(a) Pit lid fixings: Pit lids for all services are to be secured by the same type of tamper-resistant security bolt fixing. The Subcontractor shall allow a minimum of two tamper-resistant security bolt fixings per pit lid and/ or grate. Bolt types can range from M10, M12 and M16 with a common head sizing of 19 mm which shall be rebated into lid to finish flush with pit surface. The tamper-resistant security bolts shall not be installed until final pit clean and commission.  the builder shall, in conjunction with the Subcontractor and other service subcontractors, develop common head pattern type which will be used across the Site. The Subcontractor shall allow to provide a minimum of 10% of total tamper-resistant security bolt numbers/types as spares, and a minimum of three master key sockets to the builder, a minimum of six weeks prior to the Date for Substantial Completion Type to be as advised by the builder;
(b)  Anti-tamper fixings: Any fixings accessible from above with the pit lid closed, for example directional arrows, are to be of the anti-tamper type. The head type of the fixings is to be as directed by the builder;
(c) Provision of pit drainage into stormwater;
(d) Comply with the Project Labelling Strategy, which applies to all pits; and  
(e) Subcontractor to supply three sets of proprietary pit lid lifters (proprietary or alike) for hand over to the builder prior to Substantial Completion, for free issue to the facilities manager.
Not Used
In slab conduits, Voids and Photographic Records Required
(a) It is a builder safety requirement that no conduits are be installed in-slab unless there is no alternative. If an in-slab conduit must be installed, conduit(s) must be kept as short as possible and must be shown on the associated as-built drawing; and
(b) During construction, voids with services are to be photographed and catalogued prior to sealing as well as locations of any services or conduits with slabs prior to pouring. All Inspection and Test Plans (ITPs) are to include this scope. All photos are to be added into the O&M manuals, complete with drawing(s) mark-up of where photos were taken and photo file names suitably cross referenced with drawing(s) plus providing date taken. System to be approved by the builder with all files and photos available for audit at any time.
Precast Elements and Common Cell Riser Main Frames
(a) There will be up to three precast subcontractors for walls and suspended slabs – one per work area. Each precast subcontractor will produce shop drawings based off the model provided. The Subcontractor is required to review all precast shop drawings and mark up its service requirements. More complicated elements may require several reviews as precasting will not proceed until the associated workshop drawing(s) are comment free.:
(i) The three precast factories will be in the region with the suppliers yet to be determined;   
(ii) The Electrical subcontractor is responsible for the supply and installation of all standard conduits and J-boxes to be installed in the precast elements for electrical, communications, security, mechanical, fire and hydraulics services. The Electrical subcontractor will use the respective subcontractor’s documentation for the installation and will not responsible for any errors or omissions by other trades on the drawings. Also:
i. If any nontypical  backing boxes (eg intercoms, door release buttons) are to be installed, these are to be supplied free of charge by the associated trade to the Electrical subcontractor for installation; and
ii. If nontypical conduit radius bends (eg. data cabling) are required, this must be detailed on the precast workshop drawing(s) plus bends are to be supplied free of charge by the associated trade to the Electrical subcontractor for installation;
(iii) The Hydraulics subcontractor is responsible for the supply and installation of all hydraulic pipes (not conduits) to be installed in the precast elements for hydraulics services;
(iv) The Electrical and Hydraulics subcontractors are required to attend the precast factory as and when scheduled by the precast manufacturer. This may involve out of normal hours work; 
(v) The precast subcontractor will be responsible for all block outs and will not be responsible for any errors or omissions on the drawings relating to any services trade; and
(vi) Refer to the Construction Programme for precast works.  The factory precasting program will not be delayed due to lack of input from this Subcontractor; and
(b) The Subcontractor shall be present during all concrete pours, both on Site and at the precast yard, to ensure any cast in items installed by the Subcontractor remain in position during the concrete pour. The Subcontractor will be responsible for any rectification works due to items not being installed in accordance with the drawings, moving out of position, or becoming damaged or blocked during the concrete pour process; 
(c) For the prefabricated Common Cell riser main frames, a prototype assembly is to be design coordinated then fabrication completed for approval by the builder before mass production begins. Refer to Appendix A to this Scope of Works for further details;
(d)  All on Site coring for penetrations required by the Subcontractor, to be completed by the Subcontractor. Responsibility for staining of fair faced precast panels and clean-up by the Subcontractor; and
(e) On site coring only accepted for penetration NB 50 diameter and under.
Sheath Colours for Power Cabling, Patch Leads and Fly leads
(a) The sheath colours of all cables to be used on Site is to comply with the Commonality of Engineering Services; and
(b) As part of the sample submission process, sheath colour is to be nominated by the Subcontractor. For power cables, once a sheath colour is nominated for use, no change in colour will be accepted. 
Drilling, Coring and Cutting of Concrete
Drilling, Coring and Cutting of the building structure has the potential to impact both the building structural integrity and cast in services pathways (conduits). In order to ensure this does not occur, the Subcontractor is to work in accordance with the Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Procedure, which involves the use of a Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Permit. 
Following is a summary of the Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Procedure, however the Subcontractor must ensure it is familiar with the full procedure which is located within the Subcontractor HSE Pack. Should the Subcontractor fail to work in accordance with the Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Procedure, and this results in damage to conduits or cables, the Subcontractor will be back charged for the costs incurred in identifying and rectifying the damage. 
Should the Subcontractor fail to follow the process summarised at 3.10.1 below prior to the energisation of Buildings, they will be required to follow the process summarised at 3.10.2 for all Buildings at both stages.
3.10.1 Prior to Energization of Buildings
Prior to the energisation of a Building, the following process applies to Drilling Coring and Cutting within that Building; 
(a) Task Risk Assessments (TRAs) are to be updated and require the use of a concrete scanning device that has the ability to detect cast in conduits, such as a proprietary concrete scanning detection device;
(b) Drilling, coring and cutting can occur once the area to be penetrated is scanned and deemed free of cast in conduits;
(c) The Subcontractor must nominate a responsible competent person to manage the task, that is trained in the use of the scanning device;
(d) the builder are to clearly delineate temporary “Live” cast in-situ services, TRAs are to consider cast in services and deal with the delineated zones. These zones are “exclusion zones” for penetrations. Prior to any drilling, coring and cutting in an exclusion zone, the Subcontractor must complete the current Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Permit and gain approval from the builder; and
(e) the builder will ensure that cast in temporary services are only present in in-ground slabs, all other temporary electrical services will be surface mounted and highlighted via the use of temporary electrical tagging i.e yellow tape.
3.10.2 Post Energization of Buildings
Upon energisation of a Building, the following process applies to that Building;
(a) the builder will communicate to all subcontractors when a building is about to be energised. This will typically align with commissioning of the Building, i.e once most penetrations have occurred;
(b) the builder will advertise the energized state of a building at each main entry point to the building and via regular updates at pre-start meetings and project notice boards; and
(c) The Subcontractor must complete the Cutting Drilling and Core Holing Permit for all penetrations.

TRADE SPECIFIC
The following is an overview of items that are expected to be supplied by the Subcontractor, in accordance with the Subcontract Documents. This is in no way intended to be an exhaustive list.
The Scope of Works includes but is not limited to the design finalisation, supply, and installation to facilitate the complete Mechanical installation as shown on the Drawings and Specification. Items include but are not limited to the following:
(a) Temporary Works;
(b) Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning and General;
(c) Central Chiller plant;
(d) Specialised plant and equipment;
(e) Building Management System;
(f) Electrical associated with Mechanical;
(g) Prototype Cell;
(h) General;
(i) Additional Scope; and
(j) Interface with other trades.
Temporary Works
(a) Supply and install 90 industrial portable fans (600mm diameter) for use during construction activities;
(b) Allow to reposition industrial portable fans as Work fronts move, and as directed by the builder; and
(c) At the completion of the Project, remove and dispose of all temporary works as instructed by the Managing Contractor, and in an approved manner.
Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning and General
(a) Mechanical air conditioning including air handling units, pre-conditioners, fan coil units and, cassette units;
(b) Fans including ductwork fans, outside air fans, exhaust fans smoke exhaust and make-up fans;
(c) Roof cowls and exhaust flues;
(d) Duct work including access panels in ductwork;
(e) Air filters; 
(f) Grilles for each security classification area;
(g) Dampers including balancing and motorised and economy and purge cycle motorised dampers;
(h) Thermal insulation;
(i) Acoustic treatment including acoustic insulation and attenuators; 
(j) Heat exchangers; 
(k) Condensate drains including drip/safe trays;
(l) Chilled water pipework including valves, control valves, insulation;
(m) Provide all secondary framework and supports required for the Works including but not limited to uni-struts, suspension/booker rods, brackets, trims, backings, supports, plinths and frames for reinforcement and the like;
(n) Penetrations in all floor slabs above ground level.  Supply and install bunded upstands for waterproofing:
(i) 30 x 30 x 1.6mm cold formed zincanneal steel angle around penetration;
(ii) Bed angle to floor slab in sealant;
(iii) Drill and bolt angle to floor with 6mm diameter expanding masonry anchors at 900mm max centres; 
(iv) Cove to angle upstands with sealant;
(v) Floor sealant specialist subcontractor will then seal floor;
(o) All project management and engineering of relevant trade scope, including scheduling equipment and samples for approval, shop drawings and detailed engineering requirements to allow the entire system and sub systems to operate as intended and outlined in the design documentation; and 
(p) Where nominated by the Architect specification and drawings (eg 170 series drawings), all fixtures, fittings and covers are to be installed with anti-tamper screws of a type as nominated by the builder.  There will be commonality of anti-tamper fixings on site for all trades.
Central Chiller Plant
(a) Central chilled water plant and cooling towers plus factory witnessed chillers;
(b) Pumps, plant, pipework, water treatment and controls associated with the central chilled water plant;
(c) Access platforms required to access or maintain chilled water and cooling tower plant; and
(d) Secondary steelwork and supports for mechanical plant and pipework.
Specialised Plant and Equipment
(a) If hazardous areas are specifically nominated on the Drawings, hazardous zone compliance design and installation for those areas.  Hazardous area definition by a Certified Specialist, certification of the completed system including provision of and compilation of all associated required hazardous area documentation;   
(b) Medical oxygen system, dental suction system and compressed air systems;
(c) Rising Step to be installed in front of the Gate House.
Building Management System
1. Automatic controls for mechanical plant and systems, including BMS controllers, control panels, cabling, actuators, sensors, VSDs, programming, engineering, BMS graphics, virtual server, hardware, alarms and interfacing to third party systems and equipment as outlined in the BMS schedule of scope;
1. Interface with other trades as nominated; and
1. The program of works for the BMS will require submission, agreement and acceptance and development of all Graphic User Interfaces and trend logging to be completed prior to building testing.  As part of commissioning of each building by each trade, it is required that all BMS data be verified.  
Electrical associated with Mechanical
(a) All essential/ nonessential/ fire essential/ UPS mechanical services switchboards;
(b) Electrical services and controls including controllers, control panels, control cabling, BMS graphics, variable speed drives, duct heaters, power cabling, cable supports and isolators;  
(c) Fire fan control relays and cabling to control all fans and dampers in accordance with the fire matrix.  All fire rated cabling and containment where required (to AS1668.1 & AS 3013);  
(d) All circuit breakers are to be of the same make;
(e) MSSB design, colour and keying scheme:
(i) A colour scheme to differentiate between non-essential, essential and fire essential distribution sections of switchboards has been developed by the builder and is to be used;
(ii) All MSSBs and enclosures are to be lockable and keyed alike to L&F 92268;
(iii) All 230V distribution within a MSSB is to be physically segregated from the monitoring/ controls functions.  This is to include separate dedicated entry doors plus hinged escutcheons for 230V distribution; and
(iv) Factory inspection of MSSBs.
Prototype Cell
(a) The Subcontractor has made sufficient allowances to assist with the fit out of a prototype cell that demonstrates in respect of a typical double cell the construction methods, materials, finishes, fittings and attachment methods for mechanical layout;
(b) This prototype cell will be inspected and tested by the Principal’s audit consultants and the client representatives in respect of the aforementioned cell attributes to confirm conformity to the quality requirements inclusive of;
(i) Safety and security;
(ii) Contraband concealment risk; and
(iii) Strength of attachments for furniture and fittings and resilience to attack; and
(c) All aspects of the prototype cell must be approved and accepted by both the client and the Principal prior to the Subcontractor proceeding with the completion of all other cells on the Project; and
(d) The Subcontractor has made sufficient allowances to assist with the fit out of a prototype officer’s post that demonstrates in respect of a typical officer’s post the construction methods, materials, finishes, fittings and attachment methods for mechanical services layout.
General
(a) Provision of infill panels over culvert including structural supports;
(b) In all areas accessible to in-mates, fixtures, fittings and covers are to be installed with anti-tamper screws of a type as nominated by the builder.  There will be commonality of anti-tamper fixings on site; 
(c) Provision of all cable containment (tray, ladders, baskets, duct, catenaries etc.) as applicable for mechanical cabling as detailed on the Drawings and Specification or as required;
(d) Ensure segregation of mechanical and all other services is achieved and maintained;
(e) Keying in accordance with the common keying requirements;
(f) the builder have developed a General Cutover and Recovery Management Plan for any possible disruptions to the operations of the existing facility. As part of this plan (which is in operation for works currently occurring on site), potential disruptions are notified to the Client via a Service Impact on Operation (SIO). The Subcontractor will be responsible for the preparation of the SIO prior to connection/ interfacing to the existing network/ facility. The SIO is to be finalised and approved by the client Principal four weeks prior to the event. The Subcontractor is to allow for all Works related to the preparation of the SIO, including traffic guidance schemes and traffic control, as required; 
(g) The Subcontractor will be responsible for the protection of all their equipment provided under the Subcontract. This includes water, dust and mechanical protection during the construction and completion phases of the Project; and
(h) The Subcontractor is responsible for the wrapping of their services as detailed on drawing ____ – TYPICAL SERVICES THROUGH SF# AND 1B# DETAIL. The 10PMa mass concrete where the service pass under footing is by others
Additional Scope
The Subcontractor shall allow for the following items not detailed on the Subcontract Documents at the time of tender issue;
4.9.1 Acoustic Survey: 
(a) As part of completion testing, the Subcontractor is required to engage an Acoustic Engineer to verify, by acoustic testing, that the below elements of the final construction comply with the consultant's Acoustic Report recommendations. The following must be tested for compliance, with all associated plant fully operational to simulate final conditions;
(i) Every Video Conference room (33 off);
(ii) Every RW50 rated wall;
(iii) Suction plant in MU (dentist);
(iv) Cooling towers with three towers operational.  Outside X21 and also at DU;
(v) X21 chiller room with three chillers operational, plus outside X21;
(vi) Waste Water Treatment Plant immediately outside blower building and at various fence positions;
(vii) Two cells total in Detention unit (acoustic performance between cells);
(viii) Four cells total in Secure unit 1, 2 or 3 (acoustic performance between cells); and
(ix) Five plant rooms selected by the builder for noise transfer to adjacent rooms.
(b) The Acoustic Engineer must be a Member of Institution of Engineers Australia, or similar, specialise in acoustics and provide all sound generation and measuring equipment required.  All testing works will be out of normal work hours (when the construction sites have essentially closed down).  It can be expected that a minimum of three Site visits will be required to complete all tests as the Project building works will be complete and FF&E installed. All custodial locks and electronic security will be in place and thus access to buildings/ rooms will be slower than may be anticipated.    The result of all testing is to be an acoustic report listing tests conducted, expected results, results obtained, a pass or fail comment and the expected reason for failure as applicable.   
4.9.2 Visitor Processing Temporary air conditioning: 
In order to refurbish Visitor Processing, the staff and facilities will be decanted into demountables located outside the existing VP covered entry area. The existing SER is to remain fully operational at all times. To maintain conditions in SER, install two temporary DX plant in the SER prior to the decant process then remove after the refurbishment works are complete (and chilled water fully restored). Note that the SER is a secure room and access will not be permitted without a client guard present at all times. Any dust producing operations (eg drilling) will be tightly controlled to protect existing electronics. Any reduction in the physical security or fire rating of the room will not be accepted.   
Associated work: Electrical subcontractor to provide temporary power supply to each DX plant in SER.  Cable tails left. At works completion, remove temporary power supply.
The Subcontractor is responsible for the following;
(a) Supply and install fan coil units in SER, to be positioned in SER as directed on Site by the builder. Install drip tray under each unit and drain to outside the SER;
(b) Supply and install condensers one above the other on footpath outside adjacent ablutions. Enclose in temporary cage to protect against refurbishment works;
(c) Each DX plant is to be rated at minimum 4kWc. Plant does not need to be connected to BMS and is to operate independently of each other with set points of 22C and 23C;
(d) After chilled water is restored to building, recommission existing plant in SER, restore to operation and engage the incumbent BMS subcontractor to ensure and verify fully restored operation on BMS; and
(e) After temporary plant is removed, remove power supply back to electrical DB and reinstate all damaged building features to maintain SER physical and fire integrity.      

Interface with Other Trades
Refer to Appendix C for trades interface matrix.
COMPLETION REQUIREMENTS
Comply with the requirements of the Commissioning and Handover Management Plan. The Commissioning and Handover Management Plan includes the process and Subcontract requirements for Testing, Commissioning, Handover and Defects plus some details regarding how the processes are to be implemented.  Further requirements for commissioning and handover are detailed below.  
1.1 Witnessing of Testing and Commissioning Activities
5.1.1	Levels for Testing and Commissioning
There are four levels for testing and commissioning (which are reflected in the Construction Programme):
(a) Infrastructure – This is all works external to individual new buildings to be constructed as part of this Project. Infrastructure to support buildings must be in place and operational before any Building can be successfully tested and commissioned;
(b) Building – Each building is to be tested in isolation. Testing is to also prove successful interconnection into infrastructure including BMS, chilled water, fire panel, water supply, power supply, communications interconnectivity, security systems interconnectivity. It is also to verify load shedding operations via simulated ESN signals. Water Management System operates as per design. (Existing) fire pump operates when required;
(c) Neighbourhood – when all buildings forming part of a neighbourhood have been individually tested and commissioned, the operation of the neighbourhood is to be tested.  There are three main Communications rooms on site – in buildings GH, E1 and E2. Neighbourhoods are generally defined as a group of buildings with a common engineering systems connection. Neighbourhood testing is to prove all testing relating to that group of buildings operates as expected. This will require limited retesting within individual buildings. Examples include but are not limited to; 
(i) Operation of a smoke detector in SE1 indicates correctly in Entry building E2 fire panel;
(ii) Manual operation of the gas purge switch in E2 activates the fans in the associated building;
(iii) Building Management System monitoring and controlling all devices as expected, graphic user interfaces, trending, logging, reporting fully operational as expected;
(iv) Water Management System can be controlled and monitored as per design;
(v) Centralised UPS to be load tested over 4 hours and proven fully operational; and  
(vi) Security monitoring/ control in E1 and E2 work as expected; 
(d) Site/ Precinct – This is site wide testing and commissioning and it includes total systems operation such as:
(i) Verification of device (e.g., smoke detector) location;
(ii) Operation of all Communications infrastructure;
(iii) Operation of all Security systems in the Main Control Room (MCR) including all status/ alarm interfaces with other services;
(iv) Operation of generators, including load shedding. Prior to this testing, numerous Engineering Services Network (ESN) load shed simulations with verification of operation of every item of electrical plant during and after a power disruption, including distribution boards, sewer pump stations, fire systems and mechanical plant;	Comment by reviewer: What is this. 
(v) Operation of all aspects of Water Management System, Energy Metering System, Building Management System and Emergency Lighting System including all Graphic User Interfaces; and
(vi) Site/ precinct testing is to prove all testing relating to the Site operates as expected.  As per the neighbourhood testing, this will require limited retesting within individual buildings to prove functionality.   
5.1.2	Witness Testing Requirements
For each of the above levels of testing, there are witness testing requirements for all elements as follows:
(a) Subcontractor to carry out all testing and commissioning to ensure system integrity and operations are as required.  the builder will be present during this process.  All results are to be formalised and submitted to the builder via the ITP process;
(b) Witness Testing by the builder – If the builder did not fully witness the commissioning testing by the Subcontractor or is not satisfied that this witnessing was sufficient, this subcontractor is to allow for dedicated witness commissioning testing by the builder. This will generally be random testing verifying the results within the ITPs, but this testing may require a 100% retest for selected tests. For example, fire matrix testing;
(c) Witness Testing by the consultant – The Subcontractor is to allow for dedicated witness commissioning testing by the consultant. This will generally be random testing verifying the results within the ITPs, but this testing may require a 100% retest for selected tests. For example, fire matrix testing;
(d) Witness testing by Statutory Authorities – If there is a Statutory Authority with jurisdiction over the works, the Subcontractor is required to allow for whatever commissioning testing is requested to be witnessed and proven. For all such commissioning testing with the fire authority, the Subcontractor can expect the builder, the consultant, the Principal, the Building Certifier and the Fire Engineer to be invited to attend and be present;
(e) Witness Testing by the Principal and Project Authorities – The Subcontractor is to allow for dedicated witness commissioning testing by the Principal and by Project Authorities. Authorities in this case refers to the Building Certifier and the Fire Engineer. This will generally be random testing verifying the results within the ITPs, but this testing may require a 100% retest for selected tests.  For example, fire matrix testing; and
(f) The Subcontractor is to provide a matrix indicating all items to be tested/ commissioned plus is to clearly indicate all the above witness testing types.  the builder, in conjunction with the Subcontractor will then add to this list as required and pre-fill witness expectations for the consultant, the Principal and Project Authorities. This listing/ matrix will then be forwarded to the consultant, the Principal and Project Authorities for their consideration and advice regarding requirements. It can be expected that additional tests will be added, especially for integrated systems checks. 
1.2 Completion, Testing & Commissioning
The Subcontractor shall include for the following:
(a) Submit details of the proposed Inspection Test Plans (ITPs), commissioning procedures and methods of measurement.  ITPs, commissioning procedures and measurement methods which are not approved or not in accordance with Project requirements or Specifications will not be accepted as evidence that the systems have been correctly commissioned;
(b) Assist with the development of the Commissioning and Handover Management Plan when requested to by the builder.  Whether or not the Subcontractor has contributed to the plan, the Subcontractor will adhere to the requirements of the Commissioning and Handover Management Plan (as amended from time to time) and as directed by the builder;
(c) Provide a dedicated overall commissioning manager who will develop a commissioning plan and manage the whole commissioning process (review the shop drawings for commission ability, develop the program and commissioning plans, ITPs etc., pre commissioning inspections,  through to commissioning of all systems to Substantial Completion). The commissioning manager will manage the Subcontractor’s commissioning program, all commissioning activities and commissioning resources;
(d) In addition to the overall commissioning manager, for each of the four construction areas, provide a dedicated area commissioning manager, plus testing and commissioning engineers dedicated to each construction group. This means the provision of four separate testing and commissioning teams for this Project;
(e) Develop and submit a Project specific Commissioning and Handover plan detailing the plan for all commissioning, testing and handover activities to verify the Works meet the Project specific requirements and standards. The plan shall be in accordance the builder Commissioning and Handover Management Plan and all other Subcontract Documentation and applicable Standards. As part of the plan submission, include all supporting commissioning documentation, including, Project specific ITPs, commissioning procedures and methods, commissioning results and test sheets, Inspection and Test Report templates, commissioning program, and commissionable systems list.  Commissioning and testing of the Works shall be conducted on a progressive basis and align with the sequencing, staging and handover of the buildings and facilities. Allow for all commissioning and testing Works necessary to enable progressive witnessing and acceptance by the Principal and their representatives, including the retesting of systems where interfacing, connecting, or integrating to previous stages;
(f) Submit a commissioning program, itemising all commissioning, testing and handover activities, including hold and witness points for the Works, for incorporation into the builder commissioning program. Indicate on the program the sequencing, prerequisites and dependencies of activities, the numbers of commissioning staff on Site at any time during the testing and commissioning period and the anticipated duration of the various activities on a system by system basis. 
(g) Complete all labelling required by the Specification and any relevant Project specific requirements.  This includes labelling for pits pipes and valves.  Label samples are to be submitted for the builder's approval;
(h) Allow for all costs associated with one representative from the builder, the Mechanical Consultant and the Principal (three people) to attend the Factory Acceptance Testing (FAT), Site Acceptance Testing (SAT) and Integrated System Testing (IST) on major plant and equipment to demonstrate the Works to the satisfaction of the builder, the Principal and their representatives. Allowance shall be made to support the progressive staging and handover of the buildings and facilities.  Major plant and equipment are defined as follows:
(i) Chillers; and
(ii) BMS;
(i) Prior to Construction Validation Testing, start-up, commission and test all Works in accordance with the approved Subcontract Documents using the approved ITPs, commissioning procedures and methods to verify correct operation and function in accordance with the Project requirements including the manufacturer’s requirements, Specification, Standards and the Subcontract;
(j) Undertake all testing, precommissioning, commissioning and Mode and Interface Testing and provide documentary evidence of same;
(k) Allow for Site tests, all necessary labour, materials, stores, apparatus, and instruments for testing. Where tests are required to be performed away from the Site, provide everything necessary to carry out the tests;
(l) Ensure that all instruments have been calibrated by an independent certified testing authority within six months of the date of use and a current calibration certificate is available for inspection.  Instruments shall not be used to measure quantities which are outside their accurate measuring range. If there is reasonable doubt as to the accuracy of an instrument, the instrument shall be re-calibrated or alternatively, quantities measured with the disputed instrument shall be re-measured with another approved instrument;
(m) Operate all systems and equipment to the extent required for final installation, adjust and calibrate controls and instruments and rectify all faults;
(n) Arrange for the setting up of major equipment provided for these Works to be supervised by the manufacturer's representative, who shall remain on Site until the equipment is operating satisfactorily;
(o) Coordinate manufacturer's representatives so that testing is carried out according to the approved commissioning program;	Comment by reviewer: Which program?
(p) Record all measurements and results using the approved ITPs, commissioning test sheets, Inspection and Test Records. Make any modifications and additions which are necessary to meet the requirements of the Project. When results are satisfactory and in accordance with the Project requirements, submit completed ITPs and commissioning results for review prior to witness testing;
(q) Provide completed quality assurance documentation including but not limited to ITPs and check sheets. Completed ITPs and check sheets are required to be submitted prior to any Inspections plus uploaded into the Project O&M manual; 
(r) The Subcontractor shall provide operation and maintenance manuals in a format to be prescribed by the builder which are to be provided progressively as soon as reasonably available with final versions not later than Substantial Completion;  
(i) Sections of the manual are to be provided progressively onto internet hosted O&M software such as proprietary O&M software or similar;  
(ii) Where the Subcontractor has BIM responsibilities, interactive referencing (e.g. identical Asset  Numbering) to O&M manuals will also be required for all plant and equipment identified as a maintainable asset within the DEMP and associated Asset Information Register (AIR); and
(iii) The maintenance section of the O&M manuals will require all maintenance activities required during Defects Liability Period to be separately itemised.  A draft of this section of the manuals is to be fully completed minimum four months before Substantial Completion, so the builder can review and approve the scope of proposed maintenance activities;
(s) Be responsible for and ensure that any Authority Approvals required in relation to the Works are in place;
(t) Refer to Appendix D - Principal’s Requirements for Practical Completion Testing for Correctional Facilities Development at the project.  Ensure suitably proficient trade persons and qualified Supervisor(s) are present on site as applicable for:
(i) The 10 day Audit period;
(ii) The 25 day Working Day Monitoring period; and
(iii) The 5 consecutive day Fault Free period.  Should the fault free period not be deemed acceptable by the Principal, the 5-day fault free period will continue to recommence (restart the 5 days) until such time as fault free period is deemed acceptable by the Principal.
(u) For the three periods above (referred to in the Commissioning and Handover Management Plan as Stages 2, 3, 4), the Mechanical subcontractor is to make available two general use scissor lifts on site for use by any trade to conduct duties as requested by the Principal or the builder.
Interim Measures to Ensure Integrity of Plant and Systems is Maintained
Once a building has been successfully tested and commissioned, it will be locked and entry restricted.  A log book will be kept at the entry to each building for recording who entered, date, reason and works carried out. 

The Subcontractor’s Commissioning and Handover Management Plan and scope is to include interim measures to ensure integrity of plant and systems between the time a building is tested and commissioned and Practical Completion.  Such items will include:
(a) Installation of covers over all smoke detectors after commissioning and permanent removal just prior to Practical Completion;
(b) Installation of temporary construction filter media in all air handling plant prior to energisation and permanent removal just prior to Practical Completion.  In the interim, filter media is to be cleaned/ replaced as required;
(c) Scope for flushing pans, potable water, cleaning/ replacing filters on ZIPs etc will all be as per the Potable Water Reticulation Management Handbook (which forms part of the Hydraulics subcontract);
(d) Daily inspections of each communications room, UPS room, MSB room, substation to ensure no unauthorised access, rooms are locked, clean and conditions are being maintained;
(e) Maintain all plant and systems as required to ensure that integrity of operation is maintained.  For plant such as the chillers, this will include chiller maintenance as per manufacturer’s recommendations.  For emergency lighting, this will include rectification of any automatic system/ device problem report; and
(f) Cleaning: In addition to the building cleaning, the associated services trade will be responsible for the following specialist cleaning with a final clean just before Practical Completion;
(i) Cleaning/ replacing filters as required.  This includes any filters within any switchboard/ panel, air handling unit or hydraulic item;
(ii) Thorough clean inside all main plant including air handling units, electrical switchboards, mechanical switchboards, Fire Panels, Security panels;
(iii) Clean sensors and items within plant and ductwork such as MASD sampling points;
(iv) The Communications subcontractor to clean inside all racks and is to be responsible for cleaning requirements within all SER rooms/ cupboards.  This scope is to take effect from when the associated SER room/ cupboard is handed over to the Communications subcontractor for installation of racks to commence; and
(v) The electrical subcontractor will be responsible for all cleaning requirements within high voltage rooms, main switchboard rooms and UPS rooms, once the associated equipment is energised.
Finalisation, Handover, DLP
The Subcontractor shall include for the following:
(a) Provide all warranties as required by Schedule 1 of the Subcontract and the Specification, and ensure warranties are in favour of the Principal. Note special requirements for items including sealants, structural steelwork, fire rating, switchboards & control panels, pumps, air handlers, supply & ventilation fans, chillers & chilled water systems, piping, underground pipework, cable trays, split system air conditioners and cooling towers;
(b) Thermographic scanning of Mechanical switchboards one month prior to  Practical Completion and again one month before the end of the Defect Liability Period.  This work is to be completed by a specialist thermographic scanning company and the associated reports are to be provided within one week of testing and uploaded into the O&M manual.  Any anomalies found must be immediately rectified as any high temperature test result will not be accepted. Critical equipment that has to be taken offline and has an impact or disruption to the operating facility will require a temporary back up system before the works can be undertaken, this will be the Subcontractor’s responsibility;	Comment by reviewer: Or substantial?
(c) Engage an appropriately qualified Fire Engineer to certify the fire rating of the Subcontractor’s systems and workmanship throughout the entire Site. All penetrations and corresponding certifications shall be identified on a schedule and drawings and, if required, photo. All fire rated penetrations shall be tagged with a unique number.  Inspect and recertify all items at the end of the Defects Liability Period;	Comment by reviewer: The Subcontractor shall provide fire sealing of all services penetrations that breach a dedicated fire barrier with a product approved by the builder. The Subcontractor will provide a fire penetration register for each building and third party certification (by a builder approved certifier) of the product used and the installation;
(d) Where elements of the Works form part of Essential Services as defined by the relevant Codes or Regulations of Statutory Authorities, then the Subcontractor will provide an Independent Certification, and Inspection and Test Report detailing the system and each component, the date they were inspected, tested and passed as installed and functioning in their correct and intended mode of operation or manner;
(e) Provide Form 16 for installed works;
(f) Provide an electronic BIM, CAD and PDF copy of As-Built documentation marked As-Built including the conversion of shop drawings to As-Built status. As-Built documents are to be provided progressively as soon as reasonably available with final versions not later than Substantial Completion;
(g) Provide training to Operations and Facilities Maintenance Staff as nominated by the builder. The Subcontractor will provide a Training Plan in accordance with the obligations of the Commissioning and Handover Management Plan. Training shall be completed prior to Practical Completion with ongoing support as necessary.  Note that the builder Commissioning and Handover Management Plan requires professional video recording and presentation of all training sessions as part of the client “train the trainer”.  The Subcontractor is responsible for the training materials and production of quality material associated with its Works, for inclusion into the O&M manuals;  	Comment by reviewer: The builder Completions Plan	Comment by reviewer: Should this be substantial completion or the date for practical completion?	Comment by reviewer: the client or the Principal?	Comment by reviewer: Principal may be more contractually correct.
(h) Spare parts: No spare parts are required to be provided for Practical Completion unless specifically nominated in the Specification or this Scope of Works document, however, the  Subcontractor is required to maintain sufficient spare parts and replacement components as required for maintenance purposes up until the end of the Defects Liability Period. The Subcontractor is to replace spare parts consumed during the maintenance period;
(i) Provide operational commissioning assistance to the client via an on-site full time Supervisor(s) or similar who is fully conversant with the Project for 12 weeks (five days per week but available seven days per week, 24 hours per day) from the Date of Practical Completion. 
(j) Maintenance during the Defect Liability Period:
(i) the builder and the client will be utilising the maintenances as scheduled within the O&M software to forecast future activities, subcontractors involved and the client personnel required on site, including security guards;  
(ii) Provide preventative, manufacturer’s recommended and statutory maintenance during the Defect Liability Period as per the Subcontract and Specification. This scope includes provision of all consumables and components. Timing of all maintenances (date, time of day, and time window available) is to be as predetermined with the builder and the client Facility Maintenance provider;
(iii) If annual maintenance is required by manufacturer’s recommendations or statutory requirements, that maintenance is to be provided by the Subcontractor;  
(iv) For integrated maintenance testing, the Subcontractor will be responsible for being the lead for completion testing, and the lead for maintenance testing, including organising the timing of testing with the builder/ the client and the associated trades;  	Comment by reviewer: Who is the lead subcontractor? Reword – the subcontractor may be responsible – completion plan
i. Special attention needs to be provided for operationally invasive maintenances such as AS1851 part 18 fire smoke control testing;
(v) Allowance is to be made for generator black start test at Practical Completion and at the end of the Defect Liability Period. Attendance is required on site by every trade to confirm correct operation of equipment. Note that the diesel consumed during testing by the new generator is considered as a Subcontractor supplied consumable;
(vi) The expectation is that after Practical Completion, the Project will immediately become an operational prison. As such, after Practical Completion, the Subcontractor must abide by the client rules and processes. No exceptions;
(vii) For all maintenances, besides the client Facility Maintenance procedures to be followed, the requirements of maintenance activity reporting in the O&M software are to be completed;	Comment by reviewer: Facility Maintenance
(k) At  least  eight  weeks  before  the  end  of  the  Defects  Liability  Period,  submit  via the document management system and the O&M software a  schedule  of  tools, portable instruments and spare parts necessary  for  maintenance  of  the installation.  For each item, state the recommended quantity and the manufacturer’s current price. Include the following in the prices:
(i) Checking receipt, marking and numbering in accordance with the spare parts schedule; 
(ii) Packaging and delivery to site; 
(iii) Painting, greasing and packing to prevent deterioration during storage; and 
(iv) Referencing equipment schedules in the operation and maintenance manuals;
(l) Requirements before the end of the DLP include:
(i) Thermographic scan of all switchboards and provide report;
(ii) Recertify all fire penetrations and systems;
(iii) Complete all annual maintenances;
(iv) Electrical to conduct 11kV generator black test.  All services subcontractors to attend;
(v) Replace any spares used in DLP; and
(vi) Provide a list of spares recommended for the client to have on site, including pricing.























1. SUBCONTRACT DOCUMENTS
(a) The Subcontract Technical Specification, Drawings and Other Documents are provided in electronic format via the document management system Reference Tender No ____;
(b) Documents include but are not limited to:
(i) Technical Specifications;
(ii) Geotechnical reports; and
(iii) Drawings.
(c) Copies of Australian Standards and Codes of Practice and the like as referenced in the Scope of Works are not included in this Subcontract, however, they remain integrated with the Scope of Works.  These documents can be provided upon the request of the Subcontractor; and
(d) If the Tendered Subcontract Documents have been altered during the Request for Tender period and prior to Award of Subcontract, the Price for the alterations is deemed to be included in the Price Schedule and the Subcontractor shall have no entitlement to a variation claim or to extend the Date for Completion.
	Document Name
	Document Number
	Rev

	Report on Geotechnical Investigation the project
	document ____
	0

	Site Water analysis Report
	document ____
	2

	Soil Assessment Report - AMENDMENT to 200mm subgrade
	document ____
	3

	COVER SHEET
	drawing ____
	B

	MATERIALS & FINISHES SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECINCT CONTEXT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE CONTEXT PLAN - SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE CONTEXT PLAN - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	B

	FENCE LOCATION PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - SECURE ZONES
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - STAFF / PRISONER SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - STAFF / PRISONER SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - STAFF / PRISONER SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - STAFF / PRISONER SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	D

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - MAINTENANCE / TUGS SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - MAINTENANCE / TUGS SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - MAINTENANCE / TUGS SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - MAINTENANCE / TUGS SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - EMERGENCY SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - EMERGENCY SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	C

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - EMERGENCY SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - EMERGENCY SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	B

	MOVEMENT CONTROL PLAN - COVERED WALKWAY TYPES
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - KEY
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 06
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 07
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 08
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 09
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 25
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 29
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 30
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 31
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 32
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 33
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE PLAN - SHEET 34
	drawing ____
	A

	COVERED WALKWAYS
	drawing ____
	B

	COVERED WALKWAY - SECTION / DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	FENCE TYPES - SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	B

	FENCE TYPES - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	B

	FENCE TYPES - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	I

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL HEIGHTS - ELEC/COMMS/SECURITY/MECH
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL HEIGHTS - PLUMBING
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL HEIGHTS - FFE
	drawing ____
	C

	DDA TYPICAL LAYOUTS
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL GRABRAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	DOOR THRESHOLDS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR THRESHOLDS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR THRESHOLDS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	FLOOR FINISHES - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	FLOOR FINISHES - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	FLOOR SLAB JUNCTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	FLOOR SLAB JUNCTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	FLOOR SLAB JUNCTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	WALL TYPES - PARTITIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PARTITIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PARTITIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PARTITIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - BLOCK & BRICK SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - BLOCK & BRICK SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PRECAST SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PRECAST SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PRECAST SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - PRECAST SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - GIRTS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL TYPES - LININGS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WALL DETAILS & JUNCTION - VERTICAL TRANSITIONS - SH 1
	drawing ____
	B

	WALL DETAILS & JUNCTION - VERTICAL TRANSITIONS - SH 2
	drawing ____
	C

	WALL DETAILS & JUNCTION -VERTICAL TRANSITIONS - SH 3
	drawing ____
	A

	WALL DETAILS & JUNCTIONS - PLAN DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WALL DETAILS & JUNCTIONS - PLAN DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	CONSTRUCTION DETAILS - MOVEMENT JOINTS
	drawing ____
	B

	WALL ACCESS PANELS
	drawing ____
	B

	WALL & ROOF JUNCTION DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	WALL & ROOF JUNCTION DETAILS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF DETAILS - ROTATED FASCIA - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF DETAILS - ROTATED FASCIA - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF DETAILS - ROTATED FASCIA - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF DETAILS - ROTATED FASCIA - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF DETAILS - PRECAST - ZERO OVERHANG - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF GUTTER DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	CONSTRUCTION DETAILS - ROOF MOVEMENT JOINT
	drawing ____
	B

	CEILING DETAILS - ACOUSTIC
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING DETAILS - SECURE
	drawing ____
	B

	CEILING DETAILS - FIRE
	drawing ____
	B

	ACCESS PANELS DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	STAIR DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	STAIR DETAILS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - TABLES & STOOLS
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - VISITS TABLE & STOOL PLANS & DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - BALUSTRADE DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - HANDRAILS DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - PLANT DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - CORNER GUARD & BENCH SEAT
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - TV ENCLOSURE
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - SERVICES ENCLOSURE
	drawing ____
	B

	METALWORK DETAILS - BOLLARD & BIN BRACKET
	drawing ____
	B

	ANTI-LIGATURE FIXTURES - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ANTI-LIGATURE FIXTURES - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRIVACY SCREEN DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL TOILET & SEARCH CUBICAL DETAILS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL TOILET & SEARCH CUBICAL DETAILS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	NON CONTACT VISITS DIVIDING WALL DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	ALUMINIUM WINDOW FRAME DETAILS - EXTERNAL
	drawing ____
	C

	ALUMINIUM WINDOW FRAME DETAILS - EXTERNAL
	drawing ____
	C

	ALUMINIUM WINDOW FRAME DETAILS - INTERNAL
	drawing ____
	C

	ALUMINIUM WINDOW FRAME DETAILS - INTERNAL
	drawing ____
	C

	ALUMINIUM WINDOW FRAME - SMOKE SPILL LOUVRE
	drawing ____
	A

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - PRECAST CONCRETE
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - BLOCKWORK
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - DAY ROOM
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - DOOR FRAME JUNCTION
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - RHS WINDOWS
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - MANAGEMENT
	drawing ____
	B

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - PHARMACY WINDOW
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - PHARMACY WINDOW
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - DAY ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS - INTERNAL
	drawing ____
	C

	OBSERVATION WINDOW
	drawing ____
	C

	OBSERVATION WINDOW - MANAGMENT UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS -OFFICER POST-CARD PASS
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL WINDOW DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	NON CONTACT VISITS DIVIDING WALL
	drawing ____
	A

	LOUVRE DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	LOUVRE DETAILS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR FRAME TYPES - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS - PRECAST
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS - BLOCKWORK
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS - LIGHTWEIGHT FRAME
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS - ALUMINIUM
	drawing ____
	A

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	DOOR FRAME DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	DOOR LEAF TYPES -SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	DOOR LEAF TYPES -SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	DOOR LEAF TYPES -SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	B

	SINGLE CELL - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	SINGLE CELL - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	SINGLE CELL - SAFETY UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	SINGLE CELL - MENTAL HEALTH UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	SINGLE CELL - DETENTION UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	DOUBLE CELL - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	DOUBLE CELL - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	ACCESSIBLE CELL
	drawing ____
	B

	ACCESSIBLE CELL - SAFETY UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	ACCESSIBLE CELL - MENTAL HEALTH UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	ACCESSIBLE CELL - DETENTION UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	OBSERVATION CELL - DETENTION UNIT
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	STAIR DETAILS - SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	B

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - NORTH
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - SOUTH
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - EAST
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - WEST
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	D

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART A
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART B
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART C
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART D
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART A
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART B
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART A
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART B
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN - PART A
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN PART B
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN - PART C
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF PLAN - PART D
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - NORTH
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SOUTH
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - EAST
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - WEST
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	J

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	J

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	UPPER LEVEL - SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	STAIR DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	UPPER PLANT FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	UPPER PLANT SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	UPPER PLANT REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	B

	ELEVATIONS - NORTH
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SOUTH
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - EAST AND WEST
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	I

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	I

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	I

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	G

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	J

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	J

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	STAIR SETOUTS & DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	STAIR DETAILS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR ROOM DETAILS KEY PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	FIRST FLOOR ROOM DETAILS KEY PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	E

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	STAIR SETOUT AND DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	J

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART PLAN 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART PLAN 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	A

	STAIR SETOUT AND DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	E

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	H

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTION - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 01
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	A

	STAIR SETOUT AND DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	CONSTRUCTION DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	K

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	I

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	I

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____.pdf
	F

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	K

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	I

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	SERVICES LEVEL FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	SERVICES LEVEL FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GOUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SERVICES LEVEL SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SERVICES LEVEL SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SERVICES LEVEL SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SERVICES LEVEL SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	ROOF PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 3 (THERAPEUTIC)
	drawing ____
	A

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	SERVICES LEVEL RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	G

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	G

	SERVICES LEVEL FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	I

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	E

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	CONSTRUCTION DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	C

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	SERVICES LEVEL RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	B

	SERVICES LEVEL FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	C

	FIRST FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	C

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - OVERALL
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	CEILING SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR WALL SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR WALL SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	HIGH LEVEL WALL SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	HIGH LEVEL WALL SETOUT PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR - REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR - REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	E

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATION - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	A

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	G

	EXISTING AND DEMOLITION PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	UPPER WALL SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	G

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	I

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECTIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	SECTIONS - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY ROOF EAST DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY ROOF NORTH DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY ROOF SOUTH DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY ROOF GENERAL DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	CONSTRUCTION DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	SITE PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	FIRST FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR FF&E PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	WINDOW SCHEDULE - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR - EXISTING AND DEMOLITION PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR - PROPOSED ARRANGEMENT
	drawing ____
	E

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	GROUND FLOOR SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR RISK SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SECTIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR - SLAB SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR - SETOUT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR - REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	GROUND FLOOR FFE PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR - RISK / SECURITY ZONING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	GROUND FLOOR - FIRE COMPARTMENT AND EGRESS
	drawing ____
	D

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	SECTIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	GCS Scope Report
	document ____
	B

	EXTERIOR FINISHES LEGEND
	document ____
	C

	INTERIOR FINISHES LEGEND
	document ____
	G

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	D

	INTERIOR JOINERY LEGEND
	document ____
	F

	Hydraulic Fixtures Schedule
	document ____
	C

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE LEGEND
	document ____
	D

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	JOINERY SHEET MARK UP SHEET 4
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	JOINERY SHEET MARK UP SHEET 3
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	INTERNAL FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	C

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	INTERIOR FINISHES SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	JOINERY SCHEDULE
	document ____
	A

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	DOOR SCHEDULE
	document ____
	B

	WALL TYPE MARK UP
	drawing ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Contents
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - General Requirements
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Adhesives, Sealants & Fasteners
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Metals & Prefinishes
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Concrete
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Masonry
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Structural Steel
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Steel - Hot Dip Galvanised Coatings
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Security Steel
	document ____
	A

	Architectural Specification - Windows & Glazing
	document ____
	B

	Architectural Specification - Doors
	document ____
	B

	LABELLING STRATEGY
	document ____
	A

	Irrigation Early Works IFC Cover Page
	drawing ____
	0

	IRRIGATION COVER SHEET
	drawing ____
	D

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	Irrigation Detailed design
	drawing ____
	C

	Irrigation Detailed Design
	drawing ____
	C

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION DETAILED DESIGN
	drawing ____
	B

	IRRIGATION
	drawing ____
	A

	Subcontractor Health Safety and Environment (HSE) Pack
	document ____
	3

	COVID-19 Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Cutover Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Cyber Security Guidelines
	document ____
	A

	Commissioning & Handover Management Plan
	document ____
	E

	Digital Engineering Management Plan
	document ____
	F

	Document Management Plan
	document ____
	4

	Environmental Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Workplace Emergency Response Plan
	document ____
	B

	Subcontractor Modelling Guidelines
	document ____
	1

	Project Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Quality Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Security Access Management Plan
	document ____
	C

	Traffic Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Workplace Safety Management Plan
	document ____
	B

	Waste Management Plan
	document ____
	A

	Structure Methodology Presentation
	document ____
	3

	The project - Water Management System Operational Requirements
	document ____
	1

	Commonality of Engineering Services
	document ____
	D

	Potable Water Reticulation Management Handbook
	document ____
	1

	Sub Contractors Compounds
	drawing ____
	D

	Sub Contractors Compound #1 - Part A
	drawing ____
	D

	Sub Contractors Compound #1 - Part B
	drawing ____
	D

	Sub Contractors Compound #2
	drawing ____
	D

	Sub Contractors Compound #6
	drawing ____
	D

	Sub Contractors Compound #3, #4, #5
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER SHEET, LOCALITY PLAN & DRAWING SCHEDULE SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET, LOCALITY PLAN & DRAWING SCHEDULE SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GENERAL NOTES
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS OVERALL
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 25
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 29
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS SHEET 30
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS TYPICAL SECTIONS & DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	DETAILED EARTHWORKS TYPICAL SECTIONS & DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT OVERALL PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	B

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	B

	CONTROL LINE SETOUT TABLES SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	A

	PAVEMENT OVERALL PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	PAVEMENT DETAILS AND TYPICAL ROAD SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL ROAD CROSS SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER OVERALL PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 25
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	B

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 29
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS & STORMWATER PLAN SHEET 30
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ROADWORKS DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 1 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 2 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 3 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 4 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 5 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 6 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 7 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 8 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 9 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 10 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 11 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 12 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 13 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 14 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCB1 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS SHEET 15 OF 15
	drawing ____
	A

	MCE01 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	MCE02 LONGITUDINAL & CROSS SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERNAL STUB ROADS LONG SECTIONS SHEET 1 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERNAL STUB ROADS LONG SECTIONS SHEET 2 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERNAL STUB ROADS LONG SECTIONS SHEET 3 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERNAL STUB ROADS LONG SECTIONS SHEET 4 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERNAL STUB ROADS LONG SECTIONS SHEET 5 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	MKB09 TO MKB15 LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS SHEET 1 OF 4
	drawing ____
	A

	MKB01 TO MKB15 LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS SHEET 2 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	MKB01 TO MKB15 LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS SHEET 3 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	MKB01 TO MKB15 LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS SHEET 4 OF 5
	drawing ____
	A

	MKR01 TO MKR05 LONGITUDINAL SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 1 OF 17
	drawing ____
	B

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 2 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 3 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 4 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 5 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 6 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 7 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 8 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 9 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 10 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 11 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 12 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 13 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 14 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 15 OF 17
	drawing ____
	B

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 16 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	INTERSECTION DETAIL SHEET 17 OF 17
	drawing ____
	A

	OVERALL SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	A

	SIGNAGE AND LINEMARKING DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	C

	GENERAL CONSTRUCTION NOTES SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION NOTES SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	STEELWORK CONSTRUCTION NOTES SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE PLAN OVERALL
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	A

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND DETAILS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND DETAILS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL COLUMN DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL WALL DETAILS MASONRY
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL CONCRETE WALL DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL PRECAST PANEL TYPES SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	TYPICAL PRECAST PANEL TYPES SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	TYPICAL PRECAST PANEL BASE AND MID CONNECTIONS
	drawing ____
	E

	TYPICAL PRECAST PANEL TOP CONNECTIONS
	drawing ____
	E

	TYPICAL PRECAST JOINT DETAILS
	drawing ____
	E

	TYPICAL SECURE JOINT DETAILS
	drawing ____
	E

	PRECAST DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL SUSPENDED SLAB DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	H

	TYPICAL SUSPENDED SLAB DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL STAIR DETAILS
	drawing ____
	D

	STEEL STAIR 1 DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL STAIR 2 DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	PLANT STEEL STAIR DETAILS
	drawing ____
	B

	STEEL DETAILS BASE PLATES SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL STEEL DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL STEEL DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL STEEL DETAILS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	STEEL DETAILS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	STEEL DETAILS SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	A

	STEEL DETAILS SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	A

	STEEL DETAILS SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	A

	TYPICAL STEEL BASE PLATE DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	TYPICAL FENCE DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL FENCE DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL FENCE DETAILS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	TYPICAL FENCE DETAILS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	COVERED WALKWAY DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	SHELTER FRAMING PLAN AND ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTINGS AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	LOWER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	UPPER ROOF FRAMING
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	C

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SUSPENDED SLAB PART 1 BOTTOM REINFORCEMENT
	drawing ____
	C

	SUSPENDED SLAB PART 1 TOP REINFORCEMENT
	drawing ____
	C

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 4
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PART 3
	drawing ____
	E

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTINGS AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	LEVEL 1 CONCRETE LID GENERAL ARRANGEMENT
	drawing ____
	F

	STEEL CEILING PLANS
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF FRAMING PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	STEEL FRAMING ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	D

	STEEL FRAMING ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SLAB ON GROUND BTM REINFORCEMENT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	PLANT GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	UPPER ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTION SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTING AND GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	CEILING FRAMING
	drawing ____
	D

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	FIRST FLOOR GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	FIRST FLOOR CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	FIRST FLOOR CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	UPPER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	F

	DRAWING REMOVED FROM SET
	drawing ____
	C

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND GROUND FLOOR PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	FOOTINGS AND SLLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLABS GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLABS GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN 2
	drawing ____
	D

	SUSPENDED SLABS GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	STEEL CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	LOWER ROOF PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	UPPER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	A

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	LOWER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	HIGH ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	C

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	LEVEL 1 SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	GROUND FLOOR CEILING FRAMING PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	LEVEL 1 CEILING FRAMING PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	H

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	LEVEL 2 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	LEVEL 2 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	LEVEL 2 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	LEVEL 1 CEILING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	LEVEL 1 CEILING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	H

	GROUND LEVEL CEILING PLAN PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	H

	LOWER ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	J

	UPPER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	H

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING PLAN AND LOWER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	UPPER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	UPPER ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	D

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR CEILING FRAMING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	D

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND SLAB ON GROUND PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	LEVEL 1 SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	LEVEL 1 SUSPENDED SLAB PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	LEVEL 1 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	CEILING FRAMING PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF DETAILS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	E

	FOOTING AND GROUND FLOOR PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	CEILING PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR AND FOOTING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	COOLING TOWER FRAMING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	PRECAST ELEVATIONS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET AND DRAWING LIST
	drawing ____
	C

	GROUND FLOOR AND FOOTING PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	LEVEL 1 CONCRETE LID G.A. PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	BUILDING SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	Civil Specification
	document ____
	3

	Brick & Block Specification
	document ____
	A

	Concrete Specification
	document ____
	A

	Detailed Excavation Specification
	document ____
	A

	Steel Specification
	document ____
	A

	SITE - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	0

	SITE - KEY PLAN
	drawing ____
	0

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 5
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 6
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 7
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 8
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 9
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	2

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	2

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	2

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	2

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	2

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 25
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	B

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 29
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 30
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 31
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 32
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 33
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE - SITE PLAN - SHEET 34
	drawing ____
	A

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - AD-006 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - AD-006 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - AD-004 OFFICER POST COMMUNICATION AV RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	E

	STANDARD DETAILS - COMMUNICATIONS LEGEND
	drawing ____
	H

	STANDARD DETAILS - PSN NETWORK SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - PN NETWORK SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - ESN NETWORK SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - IP TELEVISION NETWORK SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	B

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL TRENCH DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL PIT DETAILS
	drawing ____
	E

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL CST CROSSOVER DETAILS
	drawing ____
	D

	STANDARD DETAILS - AUDIO VISUAL DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL SERVICES SEGREGATION
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - TYPICAL CABLE SUPPORT DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - AUDIO VISUAL DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - FLOOR BOX DETAIL
	drawing ____
	A

	STANDARD DETAILS - TELEVISION CONTROL PANEL DETAIL
	drawing ____
	A

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - CP-03 CHILLER PLANT DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT & COOLING TOWERS - CP-01 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - DU-102 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - DU-102 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - DU-017 OFFICER POST COMMUNICATION AV RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-038 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-038 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-038 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-064 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING - E1-064 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-067 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-067 COMMUNICATION RACKS ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-082 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-082 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - E2-082 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	GATEHOUSE - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	E

	GATEHOUSE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - ROOF PLAN COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	GATEHOUSE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - GH-107 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - GH-107 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - GH-107 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	GATEHOUSE - GH-107 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	GATEHOUSE - COMMUNICATIONS FIBRE RISER DETAIL
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES - IN-029 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES - IN-029 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES - IN-029 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES - IN-005 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	E

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - KL-101 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	KITCHEN & LAUNDRY - KL-101 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - MF-014 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - MF-014 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH - MH-009 WRITE UP DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH - MH-105 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH - MH-105 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	MEDICAL UNIT - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - MU-102 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - MU-102 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	MEDICAL UNIT - MU-026 OFFICER POST COMMUNICATIONS AV RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	PRISONER PROCESSING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - PP-030 OFFICER POST COMMUNICATIONS AV RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	B

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - RE-007 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - RE-007 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	E

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SE-202 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SE-202 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - SH-006 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	SPORTS HALL-MULTI-PURPOSE - SH-006 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	SUBSTATION 1 - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION 1 - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRST FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - TR-007 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - TR-007 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	VISITS - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - VI-028 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS - VI-028 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS - VI-056 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM DETAIL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITS - VI-056 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITOR PROCESSING - COVER PAGE & DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITOR PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS RETICULATION LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITOR PROCESSING - VP-005 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT ROOM LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITOR PROCESSING - VP-005 COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE AND DRAWING REGISTER
	drawing ____
	A

	GROUND FLOOR COMMUNICATIONS LAYOUT - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	B

	COMMUNICATIONS RACK ELEVATIONS
	drawing ____
	A

	SPECIFICATION FOR COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
	document ____
	B

	COVER PAGE
	drawing ____
	1

	DRAWING SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	1

	LEGEND OF SYMBOLS
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - PRECINCT PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	SCHEDULE - ELECTRICAL PITS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	2

	SCHEDULE - ELECTRICAL PITS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	2

	LV BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE LV SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE LV SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE LV SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE LV SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	D

	MSB-05 SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	LV CABLE SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	A

	UPS BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	UPS SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	UPS SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	UPS SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	UPS SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	DB-X21-UPS SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	UPS CABLE SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	A

	EMERGENCY LIGHTING BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	LIGHTING CONTROL SCHEMATIC AND SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	C

	NEW STANDBY GENERATOR (GEN 3) - COMMS BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	NETWORK CONTROL SYSTEM OVERVIEW
	drawing ____
	A

	LOAD SHED CONTROL BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	HV SWITCHING LOGIC TABLES - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	HV SWITCHING LOGIC TABLES - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	HV SWITCHING LOGIC TABLES - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	A

	HV SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	SS-M1-01 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-02 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-03 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-04 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-05 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	GENERATOR 3 PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	TEMPORARY LOAD BACK PROTECTION - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-01 HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-02 HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-03 HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-04-HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	A

	SS-M1-05-HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	A

	GENERATOR 3 PROTECTION SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	A

	TEMPORARY LOAD BACK PROTECTION SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM HV RETICULATION
	drawing ____
	A

	SITE EARTHING BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE EARTHING SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	TYPICAL BUILDING EARTHING SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	A

	TYPICAL SUBSTATION EARTHING DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	TYPICAL PIT
	drawing ____
	A

	TYPICAL PERIMETER SECTION
	drawing ____
	A

	CENTRAL FACILITY SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	CENTRAL FACILITY UPS RETICULATION SCHEDULE AND SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	A

	METERING NETWORK SCHEMATICS
	drawing ____
	C

	SITE PLAN - OVERALL - OVERALL
	drawing ____
	3

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 07
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 08
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 09
	drawing ____
	D

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	D

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	D

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	D

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	D

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	3

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	3

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	3

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	3

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	3

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 24
	drawing ____
	2

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	D

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	D

	POWER SERVICES - SHEET 28
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE MASTERPLAN LIGHTING DISTRIBUTION BOARD LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	D

	SITE DETAILS
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILS - LOW VOLTAGE PITS AND TRENCHES
	drawing ____
	1

	DETAILS - TRENCHES
	drawing ____
	1

	CENTRAL FACILITIES - SITE PLAN - ELECTRICAL LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	E

	EXTERNAL FACILITIES NEW STANDBY GENERATOR LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	A

	ADMINISTRATION - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	ADMINISTRATION - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	B

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION PLAN - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	ADMINISTRATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION PLAN - ROOF LEVEL
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	A

	DETENTION UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - SCHEMATIC - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	G

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	E

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 4
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SCHEMATIC SHEET 2 SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART A
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART B
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART A
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART B
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SUBSTATION EQUIPMENT LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - TRENCH LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - 3D DETAILS GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	GATEHOUSE - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	GATEHOUSE - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	GATEHOUSE - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	A

	GATEHOUSE - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SUBSTATION EQUIPMENT LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SUBSTATION TRENCH LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - 3D DETAILS GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - POWER & LIGHTING LAYOUT - PLANTROOM
	drawing ____
	B

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	B

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	D

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	MEDICAL UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	MEDICAL UNIT - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	PRISONER PROCESSING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	A

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	PRISONER PROCESSING - SUBSTATION EQUIPMENT LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - TRENCH AND EARTHING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - 3D DETAILS - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEDULE CABLE AND CHASSIS
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEDULE LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	A

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	A

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAMS - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAMS - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	D

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 3
	drawing ____
	B

	SPORTS HALL - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	SPORTS HALL - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	B

	SPORTS HALL - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	SPORTS HALL - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - ROOF LEVEL
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SHEET 1 SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SHEET 2 SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATIC SHEET 3 SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - POWER LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT - ROOF LEVEL
	drawing ____
	B

	VISITS BUILDING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITS BUILDING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT ROOF PLAN - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITS BUILDING - EQUIPMENT AND CABLE TRAY LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - EARTH AND TRENCHING LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - 3D DETAILS
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - POWER & LIGHTING LAYOUT PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITOR PROCESSING - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	VISITOR PROCESSING - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITOR PROCESSING - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITOR PROCESSING - SCHEDULE - LIGHTING CONTROLS
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITOR PROCESSING - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - LIGHTING PROTECTION LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	A

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	B

	CHILLER PLANT - SCHEMATIC BLOCK DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - SCHEMATIC SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	CHILLER PLANT - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	CHILLER PLANT - DIMENSIONS - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - EARTHING AND FLOOR ARCHORING GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - 3D DETAILS - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - SCHEMATIC - SINGLE LINE DIAGRAM
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - POWER LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SUBSTATION - LIGHTING LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SUBSTATION - CABLE TRAY LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - TRENCH LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - DIMENSION DETAIL - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE
	drawing ____
	2

	DRAWING SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	2

	LEGEND OF SYMBOLS
	drawing ____
	1

	GENERAL NOTES
	drawing ____
	1

	SITE PLAN
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 07
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 08
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 09
	drawing ____
	D

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	D

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	E

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	D

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	D

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	D

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	2

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	3

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	E

	WET FIRE SERVICES - SHEET 27
	drawing ____
	A

	DRY FIRE SERVICES - SITE SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	C

	DRY FIRE SERVICES - OVERALL SITE NETWORK CABLING
	drawing ____
	A

	DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	2

	DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	0

	ADMINISTRATION BULDING - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BULDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	GATEHOUSE - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	GATEHOUSE - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - PLANT LEVEL
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - PLANT LEVEL
	drawing ____
	C

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUDRY - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUDRY - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUDRY - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUDRY - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING WET FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - WET FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITOR PROCESSING - FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - SITE PLAN
	drawing ____
	B

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	CHILLER PLANT - FIRE SERVICES LAYOUT
	drawing ____
	A

	CHILLER PLANT - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - DRY FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SUBSTATION - WET FIRE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER SHEET
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAWING SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	3

	LEGEND OF SYMBOLS
	drawing ____
	4

	GENERAL SPECIFICATION NOTES
	drawing ____
	1

	PIPEWORK, MATERIALS, FITTINGS & FIXTURES SCHEDULES
	drawing ____
	3

	EQUIPMENT & PLANT SCHEDULES - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - OVERALL SITE
	drawing ____
	4

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 07
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 08
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 09
	drawing ____
	1

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	1

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	4

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 12
	drawing ____
	4

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	2

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	1

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	2

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	3

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	4

	DRAINAGE, WATER & GAS SERVICES - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	1

	DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	1

	DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	2

	DETAILS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	2

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	DETENTION UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 3
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	GATEHOUSE - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - DRAINAGE / WATER & GAS LAYOUT - PLANT ROOM & DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	B

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - LEVEL 1 - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	C

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	PRISONER PROCESSING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	PRISONER PROCESSING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	C

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - DETAIL SHEET
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	SPORTS HALL - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	D

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF PLAN
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITOR PROCESSING - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	CHILLER PLANT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - DRAINAGE LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	C

	SUBSTATION - WATER & GAS LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	C

	COVER PAGE
	drawing ____
	1

	DRAWING SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	2

	LEGEND OF SYMBOLS
	drawing ____
	1

	GRILLE SCHEDULE
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - OVERALL SITE
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 02
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 03
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 04
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 05
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 07
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 08
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 09
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 10
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 11
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 13
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 14
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 15
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 16
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 17
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 18
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 19
	drawing ____
	1

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 20
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 21
	drawing ____
	3

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 22
	drawing ____
	3

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 23
	drawing ____
	2

	CHILLED WATER SERVICES - SHEET 26
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLED WATER SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	1

	DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	0

	BUILDING GROUP DETAIL SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	BUILDING GROUP DETAIL SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	ADMINISTRATION BULDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	ADMINISTRATION BULDING - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	B

	ADMINISTRATION BULDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - LOW LEVEL
	drawing ____
	D

	DETENTION UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - HIGH LEVEL
	drawing ____
	B

	DETENTION UNIT - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	A

	DETENTION UNIT - SECTION AND DETAILS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - SECTION AND DETAILS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - SECTION AND DETAILS SHEET 3
	drawing ____
	C

	DETENTION UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 4
	drawing ____
	D

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 3
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 4
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING RESIDENTIAL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - SCHEMATICS
	drawing ____
	C

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 1
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LAYOUT - ROOF - PART 2
	drawing ____
	B

	ENTRY BUILDING SECURE - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANTROOMS
	drawing ____
	B

	GATEHOUSE - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	GATEHOUSE - LAYOUT FIRST FLOOR ROOF
	drawing ____
	A

	GATEHOUSE - LAYOUT FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - SCHEMATICS
	drawing ____
	C

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	E

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	B

	INDUSTRIES BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANTROOM
	drawing ____
	B

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT ROOF
	drawing ____
	A

	KITCHEN LAUNDRY - LAYOUT FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	B

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	MULTI-FAITH BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANTROOM
	drawing ____
	B

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SHEET 1 OF 3
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SHEET 2 OF 3
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - SCHEMATIC SHEET 3 OF 3
	drawing ____
	C

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	MENTAL HEAMENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT -ROOF - SHEET 1LTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT -ROOF - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATICSSHEET 3
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - SCHEMATICS SHEET 4
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	E

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	D

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - ROOF - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - ROOF - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	A

	MEDICAL UNIT - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LAYOUT -ROOF - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	A

	PRISONER PROCESSING - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATICS
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	RESIDENTIAL ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION BUILDING - AIR SCHEMATIC SHEET 1 OF 3
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION BUILDING - AIR SCHEMATIC SHEET 2 OF 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION BUILDING - AIR SCHEMATIC SHEET 3 OF 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 1
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 2
	drawing ____
	G

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 1
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 2
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - SERVICES RETICULATION LEVEL - PART 3
	drawing ____
	F

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	B

	SECURE ACCOMMODATION - SECTIONS AND DETAILS
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	F

	SPORTS HALL - SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - SCHEMATICS
	drawing ____
	B

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	TRANSITIONAL ACCOMMODATION - LAYOUT - FIRST FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - LAYOUT - CHW SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	C

	VISITS BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - SHEET 1
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - SHEET 2
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITS BUILDING - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITS BUILDING - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITOR PROCESSING - PROPOSED LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - DEMO LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	E

	VISITOR PROCESSING - LAYOUT - ROOF
	drawing ____
	A

	VISITOR PROCESSING - SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - PLANTROOM SCHEMATIC
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	CHILLER PLANT - SECTIONS
	drawing ____
	C

	CHILLER PLANT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - COOLING TOWERS ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	CHILLER PLANT - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR - CHILLER PLANT ROOM
	drawing ____
	A

	SUBSTATION - LAYOUT - GROUND FLOOR
	drawing ____
	D

	SUBSTATION - SECTION
	drawing ____
	B

	ACOUSTIC DESIGN REPORT
	document ____
	D

	ECOLOGICALLY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK
	document ____
	D

	FIRE ENGINEERING REPORT
	document ____
	E

	LUMINAIRE SCHEDULE
	document ____
	F

	MECHANICAL SERVICES - PRELIMINARY EQUIPMENT SCHEDULES
	document ____
	H

	ELECTRICAL SPECIFICATION
	document ____
	C

	FIRE PROTECTION SPECIFICATION
	document ____
	C

	HYDRAULIC SPECIFICATION
	document ____
	C

	MECHANICAL SERVICES SPECIFICATION
	document ____
	C

	FIRE ANT BIOSECURITY ZONE MAP
	
document ____
	A

	BMS Points Addenda Issue.pdf
	N/A
	N/A

	MEDICAL GAS SPECIFICATION
	document ____
	A

	Mechanical Addendum 001
	document ____
	A

	Mechanical Addendum 002
	document ____ 
	B

	Mechanical Addendum 003
	document ____
	A

	MEDICAL GAS SPECIFICATION
	document ____
	A




1. PRICING SCHEDULE (BILL OF QUANTITIES; SCHEDULE OF PRICES OR RATES)
PRICING SCHEDULE
The whole of the work under the Subcontract is priced as Lump Sum Items. Table 7.1 summarizes the cost of the Works and constitutes the Subcontract Sum inclusive all costs, charges, and mark-ups and including all the obligations in the Subcontract, of whatever nature whether stated or implied.
The description of work in Table 7.1 is not necessarily complete in all respects and reference should be made to the documents referred to in the Subcontract that are to be read in conjunction with this schedule.
The Pricing Schedule shall be deemed to include, but not be limited to, the following:
· All labour and supervision
· All plant, equipment and machinery
· All materials
· Customs Duty where applicable, and like charges
· All consumables
· All fees, licenses, royalties and the like
· All statutory on-costs, insurances and fixed costs
· All profit and overheads
· All other costs associated with the work under the Subcontract

PRICING SCHEDULE TABLE
	Item Ref
	Description of Work
	QTY
	UNIT
	Total Subcontract Value

	SC01
	PRELIMINARIES, PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC02
	SECURE BUILDING 1 (SE1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC03
	SECURE BUILDING 2 (SE2)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC04
	SECURE BUILDING 3 (SE3)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC05
	DETENTION UNIT BUILDING (DU)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC06
	SECURE ENTRY BUILDING (E2)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC07
	THERAPEUTIC COMMUNITY BUILDING (TH) (Identical to SE1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC08
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 1 (RE1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC09
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 2 (RE2)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC10
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 3 (RE3)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC11
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 4 (RE4)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC12
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 5 (RE5)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC13
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 6 (RE6)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC14
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 7 (RE7)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC15
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 8 (RE8)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC16
	RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 9 (RE9)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC17
	RESIDENTIAL ENTRY BUILDING (E1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC18
	TRANSITIONAL COMMUNITY BUILDING 1 (T1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC19
	TRANSITIONAL COMMUNITY BUILDING 2 (T2)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC20
	TRANSITIONAL COMMUNITY BUILDING 3 (T3)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC21
	TRANSITIONAL COMMUNITY BUILDING 4 (T4)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC22
	INDUSTRIES BUILDING (IN)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC23
	SPORTS HALL BUILDING 1 (SH1)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC24
	SPORTS HALL BUILDING 2 (SH2)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC25
	KITCHEN and LAUNDRY BUILDING (KL)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC26
	VISITS BUILDING (VI)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC27
	MULTI FAITH BUILDING (MF)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC28
	MENTAL HEALTH BUILDING (MH)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC29
	PRISONER PROCESSING and MEDICAL UNIT BUILDING (PP and MU)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC30
	ADMINISTRATION BUILDING (AD)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC31
	GATEHOUSE (GH)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC32
	REFURB EXISTING VISITOR PROCESSING  (EXISTING FACILITY - VP)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC33
	INFRASTRUCTURE
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC34
	CHILLER PLANT (X21)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC35
	TEMPORARY SERVICES
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC36
	ADDITIONAL SCOPE
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC37
	RE6 SUBSTATION  BUILDING (X22)
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC38
	WASTE WATER TREATMENT PLANT BMS (WWTP)
	1
	LS
	included

	SC39
	THE SUPPLY AND INSTALLATION OF NON-PICK CAULKING
	1
	LS
	$____

	SC40
	PASSIVE FIRE - THIRD PARTY CERTIFICATION
	1
	LS
	$____

	 
	Total Subcontract Sum 
	 
	 
	$____



TABLE OF VARIATION PRICE OPTIONS
	Item No.
	Description
	Rate
	Unit

	VPO-01
	Replace the specified manufacturer's product with an alternative manufacturer's product
	0
	LS

	VPO-02
	Add O/A to KL chemical store
	0
	LS

	VPO-03
	Deletion of SC25.21 (compressed air in KL)
	-$____
	LS

	VPO-04
	Ceramic coated condenser shell with sacrificial anodes (subcontractor VM-01)
	-$____
	LS

	VPO-05
	Delete water boxes for the evaporator shell (subcontractor VM-02)
	-$____
	LS

	VPO-06
	Chiller FAT: Allow for live video witness testing at a local central location due to the uncertainty around travel (subcontractor VM-03)
	-$____
	LS

	VPO-07
	Water pumps: propose to have short coupled, end suction centrifugal pumps with mechanical seals (subcontractor VM-05)
	-$____
	LS

	VPO-08
	Harmonic filtration with chillers:  Standard chiller harmonic filters to be deleted with harmonic filtration relocated into the MSSB to comply with Australian Standards. (subcontractor VM-06)
	-$____
	LS

	VPO-09
	Propose single stage step control for electric duct heaters that are less than 3kW capacity (subcontractor VM-13)
	-$____
	LS




TABLE OF LABOUR AND MARK-UP RATES (FOR VARIATIONS)
	Item No.
	Description
	Rate
	Unit

	SOR-01
	Apprentice 4th year
	 $____ 
	HR

	SOR-02
	Apprentice 3rd year
	 $____ 
	HR

	SOR-03
	Apprentice 2nd year
	 $____ 
	HR

	SOR-04
	Apprentice 1st year
	 $____ 
	HR

	SOR-05
	Tradesperson (Plumber)
	 $____ 
	HR

	SOR-06
	Supervisor (Site Manager)
	 $____ 
	HR

	SOR-07
	Tradesperson (Sheet Metal Worker)
	 $____ 
	HR

	SOR-08
	Project Manager
	 $____ 
	HR

	SOR-09
	Electrician
	 $____ 
	HR

	SOR-10
	Design Engineer
	 $____ 
	HR

	SOR-11
	Drafting
	 $____ 
	HR

	SOR-12
	Commissioning Technician
	 $____ 
	HR



Site Labour Rate shall include but not be limited to the following costs:
· Wages incl loadings, allowances in accordance with any enterprise or site agreement relating to conditions of employment in connection with the Site or the Project. 
· Fringe benefits or other benefits.
· Redundancy.
· Leave (such as sick, annual, long service and public holidays) and superannuation.
· Taxes, insurances, allowances.
· Travel time / allowances to and from the Site daily and for R&R.
· Communication support costs (such as site radios, computer hardware/software, IT, site phones and mobile phones).
· Any Subcontractor charges
· All other costs necessary to complete the Works; and
· Off-Site and On-Site Overhead and profit to include for all costs, overhead and profit in connection therewith, including any allowances.
Site Labour Rate measurement is to be to the nearest quarter hour as verified by the builder Representative approved daily timesheets. 




TABLE OF VARIATION RATES 
	Rates for Ductwork (supply and installation of ductwork in false ceiling spaces, before ceiling is erected.)

	ITEM NO
	SHEET METAL DUCT SIZE 
MM
	RATE PER METRE RUN - STRAIGHT LENGTHS
250 PA AS4254 PRESSURE CLASS – INTERNALLY INSULATED

	
	
	Nude
	R1.5
50 mm Internal
	R2.2
75 mm Internal
	R3.0
100 mm Internal

	
	 
	 
	(A)
	(B)
	(C)
	(D)

	SOR-13
	150 x 350
	$____ 
	$____ 
	N/A
	N/A

	SOR-14
	200 x 350
	$____ 
	$____ 
	N/A
	N/A

	SOR-15
	500 x 350
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-16
	600 x 350
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-17
	700 x 400
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-18
	800 x 800
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-19
	1000 x 1000
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-20
	2000 x 2000
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	ITEM NO
	SHEET METAL DUCT SIZE 
MM
	RATE PER METRE RUN - STRAIGHT LENGTHS
250 PA AS4254 PRESSURE CLASS – EXTERNALLY INSULATED

	
	
	R1.2
38 mm External
	R1.5
50 mm External
	R2.2
75 mm External
	R3.0
100 mm External

	
	 
	 
	(A)
	(B)
	(C)
	(D)

	SOR-21
	150 x 350
	N/A
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-22
	200 x 350
	N/A
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-23
	500 x 350
	N/A
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-24
	600 x 350
	N/A
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-25
	700 x 400
	N/A
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-26
	800 x 800
	N/A
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-27
	1000 x 1000
	N/A
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-28
	2000 x 2000
	N/A
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 




	ITEM NO
	SHEET METAL DUCT SIZE 
MM
	RATE PER RADIUS BEND
250 PA AS4254 PRESSURE CLASS - INTERNALLY INSULATED

	
	
	Nude
	R1.5
50 mm Internal
	R2.2
75 mm Internal
	R3.0
100 mm Internal

	
	 
	 
	(A)
	(B)
	(C)
	(D)

	SOR-29
	150 x 350
	$____ 
	$____ 
	N/A
	N/A

	SOR-30
	200 x 350
	$____ 
	$____ 
	N/A
	N/A

	SOR-31
	500 x 350
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-32
	600 x 350
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-33
	700 x 400
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-34
	800 x 800
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-35
	1000 x 1000
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	SOR-36
	2000 x 2000
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 
	$____ 

	ITEM NO
	FLEXIBLE DUCT SIZE MM
	Rate

	SOR-37
	200 dia. x 6mL
	$____ 

	SOR-38
	250 dia. x 6mL
	$____ 

	SOR-39
	300 dia. x 6mL
	$____ 



	Rates for Pipework (supply and installation of pipe work in ceiling/floor spaces, before the erection of false ceiling or floor).

	ITEM NO
	PIPE DIAMETER MM
	RATE PER METRE RUN - STRAIGHT LENGTHS INSULATED (CHWF/R)
POLYSTYRENE WITH FOIL VAP. BARRIER.

	SOR-40
	15 Cu
	$____ 

	SOR-41
	20 Cu
	$____ 

	SOR-42
	25 Cu
	$____ 

	SOR-43
	32 Cu
	$____ 

	SOR-44
	40 Cu
	$____ 

	SOR-45
	50 Cu
	$____ 

	SOR-46
	65 Cu
	$____ 

	SOR-47
	80 Cu
	$____ 

	SOR-48
	100 Cu
	$____ 

	SOR-49
	150 Cu
	$____ 

	SOR-50
	200 Steel
	$____ 




	ITEM NO
	Description
	Rate
	Unit

	SOR-51
	Trenching inclusive of survey, excavation, backfill, removal of spoil for 2 x 160mm pipes. (Excludes rock)
	$____ 
	Metre

	SOR-52
	Supply and install pipe (straight run) in above trench.  Price for 2 x 90mm pipes
	$____
	Metre

	SOR-53
	Supply and install pipe (straight run) in above trench.  Price for 2 x 160mm pipes
	$____
	Metre

	SOR-54
	Extra over cost for rock
	$____ 
	M3

	SOR-55
	Supply and Install grille type S3 (Includes CH Box and 3m Flex)
	$____ 
	Each

	SOR-56
	Supply and Install grille type R7 (Includes CH Box and 3m Flex)
	$____ 
	Each

	SOR-57
	Delete SG6 and CH Box, add S3 and CH Box
	-$____
	Each





A bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, do not form part of this Subcontract, save to the extent that it is used by the builder to value variations under this Subcontract. 
Notwithstanding that any bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, may be in error in that it may contain an item which should not have been included therein or may omit an item which should have been included therein or that it contains any other error, ambiguity, inconsistency or omission, the Subcontractor:
· will have no claim against the builder with respect thereto;
· hereby releases the builder from any claim, demand, suit, cause of action or proceeding in connection with any bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the variation rates contained at Item 7.5.
Each item of the bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the variation rates at Item 7.5 will, without limiting the generality thereof, be deemed to be priced to include:
· labour and all costs and on costs in connection therewith;
· all plant, equipment (including access equipment) and machinery;
· materials and goods, and all costs in connection with handling, conveyance, delivery, unloading, storing, returning, packaging, hoisting and the like;
· waste of material;
· establishment costs, overhead costs (on site and off site) and profits; and
· all necessary attendance (including, without limiting the generality, taking delivery; unloading and assistance in unloading; getting in; storing; protecting; providing all necessary labour in relation to; provision of water and electricity; providing scaffolding in position for all purposes; and all sanitary and messing accommodation).
The builder will have no liability to the Subcontractor by reason of any acceptance, approval or other endorsement of whatever nature in connection with any bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, and the subcontractor will have no claim in connection with the same.
Quantities in a bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, are estimated quantities only.
The builder is not required to give a direction by reason of the actual quantity of an item required to perform the Works being greater or less than the quantity shown in a bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5.
Neither the supply by the builder of any bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, for tender purposes nor anything in, or in relation to, any such bill of quantity or schedule of rates, including the rates for variations in Table 7.5, will prevent the builder from requiring the Works to be varied.

1. PROGRAMMING REQUIREMENTS
GENERAL PROGRAMMING REQUIREMENTS
Refer to clause 33.2 of the Subcontract for construction program requirements.
In addition to this, the Subcontractor’s construction program shall be submitted in electronic (native file) copy form using a computer software package approved by the builder. Unless approved otherwise in writing by the builder, the only software packages accepted are:
(a) Primavera P6;
(b) Microsoft Projects; and
(c) Microsoft Excel.











Appendix A Common Cell Riser Main Frame (CCRMF) 

A-1	Responsibility Matrix
Table 1 below indicates the services responsibility matrix for the common services cell riser;
	Scope
	Discipline

	Provision and accurate location of all incoming services
	By relevant service subcontractor

	Sanitary Plumbing
	Hydraulics

	Water supply
	Hydraulics

	Water Management System 
	Hydraulics

	Water Management System Back Bone Cabling
	Hydraulics

	Power supply/ GPO’s etc.
	Electrical

	Fire suppression
	Fire

	Fire detection (VESDA)
	Fire

	Toilet Exhaust 
	Mechanical

	Supply air Snorkel free area calculation and verification
	Mechanical

	Duress Alarms
	Security

	Common Cell Riser Main Frame
	Hydraulics

	Cell Riser Services Fixings
	Supplied by respective service subcontractor and fitted by Hydraulics

	Transport, cranage and installation of Common Cell Riser
	Hydraulics

	Lead services cell riser coordination.
	Hydraulics

	Final connection of services 
	By relevant service subcontractor

	Manufacturing location of Common Cell Riser to be advised by Hydraulics subcontractor
	Respective service subcontractor to allow skilled labour at Hydraulics common cell riser construction facility (with the exception as outlined in A-1.1 Common Cell Riser Main Frame)



A-1.1		Common Cell Riser Main Frame
(a) Common Cell Riser Main Frame (CCRMF) is to be constructed by the Hydraulics subcontractor. The Hydraulics subcontractor shall provide third party design and certification by and Registered Professional Engineer of Queensland (RPEQ) for structural and lifting adequacy; and
(b) Where the works do not require a licenced tradesperson to carry out the works, the services subcontractors will free issue to the Hydraulics subcontractor any proprietary bracketing, cable tray and the like for the Hydraulics subcontractor to install within the CCRMF. The Hydraulics subcontractor will be responsible for the supply and installation of all fixings required to secure the free issued material to the CCRMF.






A-1.2		Shop Drawing Deliverables and Coordination
(a) The Hydraulics subcontractor is responsible for the shop drawing lead to fully coordinate the services design of the CCRMF; 
(b) The services subcontractors shall provide the Hydraulics subcontractor continual design/ shop drawings updates as directed by the Hydraulics subcontractor and the builder until the design model is 100% clash free;
(c) Installation shall not proceed on any section of works until 100% clash free coordination has been signed off by the builder and all services subcontractors;
(d) Any rectification works, changes, or modifications required either at the manufacturing facility or on site due to lack of coordination, poor workmanship or failing to maintain program, will be carried out by the respective subcontractor free of charge (except for free issued items as outlined in A-1.1. Common Cell Riser Main Frame).

A-1.3		Prototype
(a) The Hydraulics subcontractor is to manufacture a prototype of the double storey cell duct and CCRMF for sign of by the builder and the relevant services subcontractor prior to full production of the CCRMF. 

A-1.4		Services Installation/Sequencing
(a) The Hydraulics subcontractor is responsible for providing the facility for the construction of the CCRMF. The location of the facility is to be located within 125km radius of the Project;
(b) The Hydraulics subcontractor shall ensure the facility is secure, undercover, has adequate parking, sanitary and lunch facilities, and general purpose power. The facility is to allow the services subcontractors to place a minimum of two lockable containers to store tools and materials outside of working hours. The manufacturing facility shall also have a forklift to allow loading and unloading of deliveries. The builder are to inspect and approve the manufacturing facility prior to commencement of the manufacturing of the CCRMF;
(c) Hydraulics subcontractor to provide the builder and the services subcontractors with a detailed construction program that aligns with the Construction Programme;
(d) All services subcontractors shall ensure they provide sufficient labour and materials to maintain the Construction Programme;and
(e) The completed CCRMF shall be weather protected (wrapped), transported to site and lifted and secured into place by the Hydraulics subcontractor.

A-1.5		Testing 
(a) The services subcontractors shall test all services in accordance with their relevant engineering specification and Australian Standards prior to delivery to site. All tests are to be witnessed and ITPs signed off by a builder representative before any site installation takes place.
A-1.6		Facility Amenities
(a) The Hydraulics Subcontractor shall provide facilities (toilets, first aid, kitchen amenities, cribs etc) for all other services to utilise. Up to 20 personnel is to be allowed for.


Appendix B Design Responsibility Matrix
 The following table is provided as guidance to the division of responsibility for design of the Works:	Comment by reviewer: I have deleted these as the builder are providing the inground services survey. Will please ensure the survey scope picks up items below.

	Area
	Schematic Design, Design Development and IFC
	Shop Drawings and As Constructed
	Approval By

	Design Drawings & Schematics 
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Sizing of Plant and Equipment 
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Plant Layout and Plantroom sizes. 
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Riser Sizes and layout
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Authority Fees and Approvals
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Ductwork Sizes and layout
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Pipework sizing and layout
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Diffuser selection, sizing and layout.
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Mechanical Services Switchboards, associated equipment, controls and wiring.
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Controls system 
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Co-ordination of Service Design
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Sample Approvals
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Testing and Commissioning
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Certification of design & installation
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Workshop Drawings
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Design Calculations
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	As Built Documentation
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Co-ordinated Fire Control strategy and documentation.
	Consultant
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder

	Warranties
	N/A
	Subcontractor
	Principal/Consultant/ the builder




Appendix C   Building Works Responsibilities
Note: ‘X’ indicates responsible party.
C-1	Interface Works with the builder 
*the builder in the table below refers to other contractors. 
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Mechanical
	The builder*

	 
	Coordination
	 
	 

	C-1.01
	Connections and coordination to other services and the like.
	X
	 

	C-1.02
	Full flexibility during the coordination, execution, and completion of works as requested by the builder.
	X
	 

	 
	General Penetrations etc.
	 
	 

	C-1.03
	Clear openings >Ø50mm, through the building structure for the passage of ductwork, pipework, and the like. These will need to be cast in by the form worker, precast or partition subcontractor.
	 
	X

	C-1.04
	Clear openings <Ø50mm, including core holes, scabbling, chasing through the building structure for the passage of ductwork, pipework, and the like.
	X
	 

	C-1.05
	Cutting, patching, trimming, and making good of the building structure and ceilings for the installation of ductwork, pipework, air terminal devices, and the like, based on the installation taking place in accordance with the building program.
	X
	 

	C-1.06
	Opening locations are to be detailed by the Subcontractor and provided in time to meet the Construction Programme. If information is not provided in time to meet Construction Programme, any openings which are required post construction of element will be at Subcontractor’s expense.
	X
	 

	C-1.07
	Seal all ductwork, pipe penetrations and the like to air seal for airtight shafts and plenums.
	X
	 

	C-1.08
	Supply and install all sleeves, holding bolts, conduits and any other fixings required to be built in during construction and fixed into formwork prior to concrete pour.
	X
	 

	C-1.09
	Cast in all conduits (exposed conduits shall be avoided) and coordinate cast-ins, penetrations, and the like to the formwork/ structure system.
	X
	 

	C-1.10
	Make all roof penetrations and water proofing of those roof penetrations to the satisfaction of the builder.
	X
	 

	C-1.11
	Provision of steel angle bunding around all floor penetrations.
	X
	 

	C-1.12
	Bunding and sealing of floor penetrations.
	X
	 

	C-1.13
	Floor membrane subcontractor to integrate.
	 
	X

	C-1.14
	Provision of non-pick sealant around/ under all Subcontractor installed items where required by security classification.
	X
	 

	 
	Safety Mesh
	 
	 

	C-1.15
	Installation of safety mesh in penetrations through suspended floors.
	 
	X

	C-1.16
	Clearing penetrations for the use by the Subcontractor of safety mesh and the erection and maintenance of barricades and penetration covers to these penetrations.
	X
	 

	 
	Set Out
	 
	 

	C-1.17
	Set out lines of main building grid lines, two lines in two directions & a datum per floor.
	 
	X

	C-1.18
	The Subcontractor shall satisfy himself as to the correctness of all building elements prior to commencement of Works. Commencement of work is deemed to be acceptance of preceding works.
	X
	 

	C-1.19
	The Subcontractor shall notify the builder of all incorrect set out and site measures 48 hours prior to commencement.
	X
	 

	C-1.20
	The Subcontractor shall allow to site measure all works prior to manufacture or procurement as deemed necessary to successfully execute the works.
	X
	 

	 
	Ceilings
	 
	 

	C-1.21
	Installation of ceiling tiles and access panels to schedule, allowing access for commissioning purposes for an agreed period.
	 
	X

	C-1.22
	Handling of ceiling tiles and access panels outside of scheduled period and replacement of those damaged will be performed by the ceiling & Partitions subcontractor at the Subcontractor’s expense.
	X
	 

	C-1.23
	Coordinate with the ceiling Subcontractor to ensure the installation of the ductworks and diffusers does not affect the integrity of the ceiling system. (i.e. clashes with main runner).
	X
	 

	C-1.24
	Ensure that no cables, duct, pipework, and the like are resting on the ceiling grid and tiles.
	X
	 

	 
	Access Panels
	 
	 

	C-1.25
	Subcontractor to provide access panel locations for adjustment and maintenance of equipment (on BIM) to the builder for consultants to detail on IFC architectural RCP drawings. 
	X
	

	C-1.26
	Access openings in ceilings, bulkheads, walls and at other positions to IFC architectural RCP drawings.
	
	X

	 
	Floors
	 
	 

	C-1.27
	Waterproof floor toppings if required.
	 
	X

	 
	Plinths under AHUs, pumps, MSSBs

	C-1.28
	Setout of location, including sizing and securing to floor as required
	X
	 

	C-1.29
	Plinth, including seismic and vibration isolation.
	X
	 

	C-1.30
	Levelling plinth to suit falls in plant room floor.
	X
	 

	 
	Plinths under chillers and pumps in X21

	C-1.31
	Provision of metal surrounds for concrete in-fill plinths plus exact set-out positions where such plinths are specifically nominated – Chiller building only
	X
	 

	C-1.32
	Mesh and concrete infill in above chiller building plinths
	 
	X

	C-1.33
	Waterproof membrane on above chiller building plinths
	 
	X

	 
	Flashing to all ducts, pipes and flues penetrating building exterior

	C-1.34
	Set out/ detailing.
	X
	 

	C-1.35
	Cutting roof/ exterior cladding (if required).
	 
	X

	C-1.36
	Under flashing.
	 
	X

	C-1.37
	Over flashing.
	X
	 

	C-1.38
	Support from structure.
	 
	X

	 
	Fire and Smoke Rating
	 
	 

	C-1.39
	Provision of fire rated shafts for vertical distribution where detailed.
	 
	X

	C-1.40
	Clear openings (for fire dampers) in walls within schedule to details provided in good time by Subcontractor.
	 
	X

	C-1.41
	Fire and smoke rating of penetrations and ductwork where required.
	X
	 

	C-1.42
	Sealing of penetrations incl inside conduits & ducts as required.
	X
	 

	C-1.43
	Supply and installation of fire and smoke dampers.
	X
	 

	C-1.44
	Certificate of all fire and smoke penetrations and associated equipment
	X
	 

	 
	Acoustic Rating
	 
	 

	C-1.45
	Provision of acoustic walls & ceilings.
	 
	X

	C-1.46
	Clear openings in acoustic walls to details provided by Subcontractor.
	 
	X

	C-1.47
	Acoustical rating of ductwork and penetrations.
	X
	 

	C-1.48
	Seal Penetrations, incl inside conduits & ducts as required
	X
	 

	 
	Pipe Sleeves, holding down bolts and the like
	 
	 

	C-1.49
	Supply of components and setout drawings.
	X
	 

	C-1.50
	Building into structure any pre-positioned fittings.
	 
	X

	C-1.51
	Sealing between service, sleeve & penetration.
	X
	 

	C-1.52
	Supply & installation of sleeve.
	X
	 

	 
	Door Grilles - NOT cell doors
	 
	 

	C-1.53
	Supply of door grilles
	X
	 

	C-1.54
	Installation of door grilles
	 
	X

	C-1.55
	Undercutting doors 20mm as nominated by Subcontractor
	 
	X

	 
	Door Grilles - cell doors
	 
	 

	C-1.56
	Supply and installation of door grilles
	 
	X

	 
	Grilles, diffusers, registers (incl ducted & non-ducted transfer grilles)

	C-1.57
	Supply & installation
	X
	 

	C-1.58
	Cutting of plasterboard 
	 
	X

	C-1.59
	Framing of R/A grille and secure grille penetrations
	 
	X

	C-1.60
	Provision of return or relief air slots at the perimeter of spaces where documented.
	 
	X

	 
	Weatherproof Louvres - Fixed
	 
	 

	C-1.61
	The provision and installation of all fixed weatherproof louvers complete with bird screens and bars (if required).  
	 
	X

	C-1.62
	Blanking off unused sections of fixed louvers.
	X
	 

	 
	Louvres - Motorised (as nominated in Mechanical Schedule)
	 
	 

	C-1.63
	Workshop drawings detailing motorised louvres plus their installation, fully co-ordinated with building elements
	X
	 

	C-1.64
	Provision of fully framed opening for motorised louvres
	 
	X

	C-1.65
	Supply, installation and fixing into position of motorised louvres. Testing and commissioning
	X
	 

	C-1.66
	Provision of mesh on both sides of louvres
	 
	X

	C-1.67
	External and internal overflashing and sealing around motorised louvres
	 
	X

	 
	Painting
	 
	 

	C-1.68
	Subcontractor’s installation as required / specified.
	X
	 

	C-1.69
	Plant Rooms (Structure Only), general building interiors.
	 
	X

	 
	Plenums / Plantrooms
	 
	 

	C-1.70
	Provision of plant room and/or cupboards constructed of rendered brickwork or set plasterboard walls to the acoustic specification requirements.
	 
	X

	C-1.71
	Acoustic sealing of Subcontractor's penetrations in Plant Rooms and/or cupboards.
	X
	 

	C-1.72
	Provision of service walkways/ steps etc. to allow safe access to Subcontractor's plant, excluding cooling towers
	 
	X

	C-1.73
	Provision of acoustic louvres, and screens around Subcontractor's plant. (Excluding specific plant acoustic enclosures eg suction plant in dentist room)
	 
	X

	C-1.74
	Construction of rooms, chambers, or cupboards for the accommodation of the following equipment – electrical plant, mechanical plant, fire plant, hydraulic plant, culverts & cover plates
	 
	X

	C-1.75
	Pressure testing plenums
	X
	 

	C-1.76
	Provision of steps and protective covers over mechanical items eg duct and conduits to allow safe access to mechanical plant.
	X
	 

	C-1.77
	Provision of padding over structural and other elements intruding into the 2000H x 1000W services walkway zones plus tiger adhesive tape or similar warning labelling over padding.   (OH&S measure)
	X
	 

	 
	Air Sealing of Buildings
	 
	 

	C-1.78
	Buildings sealed as per NCC and Fire Engineering requirements.
	 
	X

	C-1.79
	In addition to the above, SE, TH, DU service areas above cells sealed as per heightened Fire Engineering requirements.
	 
	X

	C-1.80
	For SE, TH, DU service areas above cells, inspections during building construction to visually confirm air sealing is being attended to.
	X
	 

	 
	Cooling Towers (Building X21)
	 
	 

	C-1.81
	Provision of columns under cooling towers to elevate base of cooling towers.  
	 
	X

	C-1.82
	Provision of service walkways/steps etc. to allow safe maintenance access up to and around cooling towers.
	X
	 

	 
	Insulation
	 
	 

	C-1.83
	Insulation to ductwork, conditioner housings, cupboards and plenums as necessary, including insulation of masonry shafts if necessary.
	X
	 

	 
	General Services
	 
	 

	C-1.84
	General lighting and temporary power for construction purposes.
	 
	X

	C-1.85
	Water, gas, and electricity for the commissioning and test running of the plant
	 
	X

	C-1.86
	Task lighting for construction purposes
	X
	 

	 
	Protection of Equipment
	 
	 

	C-1.87
	Bollards, protection frames, hazard signs & markings protecting ductwork
	X
	 

	C-1.88
	Protection and maintenance of the Subcontractor's work and materials during the contract through to Practical Completion
	X
	 

	 
	Cleaning, Making Good & labelling
	 
	 

	C-1.89
	Making good of all damages to finishes whilst executing the works, to the satisfaction the builder.
	X
	 

	C-1.90
	Cleaning of all elements prior to, during and after installation.
	X
	 

	C-1.91
	Clean all finished products at a time as nominated by the builder.
	X
	 

	C-1.92
	Labelling of all items installed by Subcontractor.
	X
	 

	C-1.93
	Signage on doors to indicate function of room/ cupboard eg “Plant room”.
	 
	X

	 
	Materials handling
	 
	 

	C-1.94
	Unloading, hoisting and lifting and final positioning of Subcontractor's equipment/ plant/ materials. 
	X
	 

	C-1.95
	Monorail beams (if applicable) in accordance with location nominated by Subcontractor.
	 
	X

	C-1.96
	Horizontal movement of materials.
	X
	 

	C-1.97
	Scaffold (fixed or mobile) required by the Subcontractor.
	X
	 

	 
	Earth Works
	 
	 

	C-1.98
	Cutting, trenching, backfilling, compacting, and the reinstatement of surfaces and the like to successfully complete the works. Backfilling is to match the CBR of adjacent areas and may require engineered compaction.
	X
	 

	C-1.99
	All earth works are to be fully surveyed with drawings submitted to the builder
	 
	X

	C-1.100
	Responsibility for accuracy of as-built Drawings
	X
	 

	 
	Anti-Vehicle Ramming System (AVRS)
	 
	 

	C-1.101
	Supply and Install complete with rising step, drive cabinet, hydraulic power unit, control panel, control cabling, hydraulic piping.  Provide shop drawings to clearly show AVRS plus defining “associated works”.  Test and commission.
	X
	 

	C-1.101
	Excavation, structural pit and AVRS surrounds integrated into pavement design by structural concrete trade.  Vehicle bollards if required by bollard trade.
	 
	X

	 
	Demolition associated with Visitor Processing Building
	 
	 

	C-1.102
	Dilapidation survey of building complete with report and photo submission to the builder. Identify any concerns.
	X
	 

	C-1.103
	Identifying, labelling, and protecting all plant, pipework, cabling and ductwork to be retained. 
	X
	 

	C-1.104
	Identifying, labelling, and protecting all plant, pipework, cabling and ductwork to be demolished and removed from site. 
	X
	 

	C-1.105
	Where part of a duct run is to be retained, remove a section of duct and blank-off and protect existing duct to be retained.
	X
	 

	C-1.106
	Remove, clean, store safely (then later reinstate) registers/ grilles to be retained and dust protect interior of associated ducts OR dust cover and protect registers/ grilles/ ducts as appropriate for demolition activities in that area.
	X
	 

	C-1.107
	Remove refrigerant from plant to be demolished.
	X
	 

	C-1.108
	Remove concrete plinths from under existing AHUs.
	 
	X

	C-1.109
	Remove from Site all items identified to be demolished and removed from site.   
	 
	X

	C-1.110
	Reinstate and certify no longer required penetrations through fire rated walls.
	 
	X

	C-1.111
	Reinstate cladding and roofing over no longer required penetrations through building exterior/ roof.
	 
	X





C-2	Interface Works with Common Services Trench (CST) Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Mechanical
	CST

	C-2.01
	Provide ITPs plus all testing, commissioning, photographic records, technical data etc into the Operations and Maintenance manual
	 
	X

	C-2.02
	Leave CST pits/services connections in clean condition.  Provide internal and external photos of each pit and valve prior to any main works subcontractor entering/ using.
	 
	X

	C-2.03
	Just prior to Practical Completion of the Project, at a time agreed with the builder, install tamper-resistant security bolt fixings to pit lids and provide drivers as required to the builder.
	 
	X

	C-2.04
	Inspect pits/services connections before connection and or entry into any pit, noting any concerns. Note:  Pits will remain the responsibility of the CST subcontractor with respect to warranties.
	X
	 

	C-2.05
	Internally clean all pits (regardless of why the pits may have had dirt etc ingress) and make good any damage that may have occurred to any pit accessed by the Subcontractor before the lids are bolted down.   This includes touch-up paint if required on valves.
	X
	 




C-3	Interface Works with Electrical Services Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Mechanical
	Electrical

	C-3.01
	Supply and installation of all electrical services plant and equipment.
	 
	X

	C-3.02
	Supply and installation of submain supply to MSSBs.
	 
	X

	C-3.03
	Supply and installation of submain supply to each central chiller (4 off) and AVRS control cubicle (gatehouse).
	 
	X

	C-3.04
	Termination of submain to the mechanical services switchboards (MSSBs) and to central chillers and AVRS cubicle.
	X
	 

	C-3.05
	All wiring from MSSB’s to mech plant including isolators as required.
	X
	 

	C-3.06
	Anti-vehicle ramming system (AVRS) at gatehouse - All underground conduits for electrical and hydraulics between rising step and drive cabinet.
	 
	X

	C-3.07
	Anti-vehicle ramming system (AVRS) at gatehouse - Provision of UPS supply to the drive cabinet to power the PLC (not drive motor) ie 2 sources of power to this cabinet.
	 
	X

	C-3.08
	For medical gas panels plus where specifically nominated on the Consultant’s design drawings, provision of isolators & electrical supply adjacent to the mechanical plant.
	 
	X

	C-3.09
	Provision of all cable trays, ladders, containment systems for all cabling installed by mechanical subcontractor.
	X
	 

	C-3.10
	Identification of BMS interfaces, interface points and wiring to these interfaces.
	X
	 

	C-3.11
	Cabling from the MSSBs to associated building DB (eg for surge protection status), UPS, Lighting Management System (LMS) or nominated electrical equipment for connection into the BMS.  Leave tails so final connections to electrical equipment are by Electrical.
	X
	 

	C-3.12
	Terminations in MDB by electrical subcontractor.
	 
	X

	C-3.13
	Precast factory conduit installation by electrical trade to shop drawing mark-ups by mechanical.  Refer this Scope of Works document section 3 “Precast Elements and Common Cell Riser Main Frames” for more details.
	X
	X

	 
	Domestic rangehoods in kitchenettes.  (Does not include kitchen and VI Café)

	C-3.14
	Supply and install rangehoods complete with exhaust fan and exhaust ducting to above roof.  
	X
	 

	C-3.15
	Liaise with joiner for dimensional and other requirements.
	X
	 

	C-3.18
	Liaise with Electrical regarding location of exhaust fan/ integral light termination box and location of associated power outlet or isolator required.
	X
	 

	C-3.16
	Power for rangehood exhaust fan/ light.   Electrical to provide a power outlet or isolator adjacent fan for fan to connect to.  Fan and integral light to operate similtaneously.
	 
	X

	C-3.17
	Design for how/ when power outlet for exhaust fan has power available.  Note:  No interface with MSSB.
	 
	X

	 
	New Generator and Existing Generators.

	C-3.19
	Identification of BMS interfaces required.
	X
	 

	C-3.20
	Provision of a data point by communications trade (for connection into BMS).  Provide all interfaces required (including load shedding/ control) and connect into the BMS VLAN for use by BMS.
	 
	X




C-4	Interface Works with Communications Services Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Mechanical
	Communications

	C-4.01
	Supply & installation of data points connected back to the associated comms room.
	 
	X

	C-4.02
	Supply and installation of patch leads between MSSBs/ mechanical plant and data points.  Patch lead colour and type to be as per site standard requirements.
	X
	 

	C-4.03
	Supply and installation of ALL fibre and copper infrastructure between each communications room/ cupboard.
	 
	X

	C-4.04
	Supply and installation of all data racks, fully dressed, including earthing plus all patch panels and FOBOTs installed in data racks – ready for ICT subcontractor to install active equipment.
	 
	X

	C-4.05
	All data cable and fibre terminations in comms rooms/ cupboards from outside that room/ cupboard plus associated labelling.
	 
	X

	C-4.06
	Existing plant – refer interface tables for interface with WWTP, generators and existing Fire plant.  Data points and special comms infrastructure required.
	 
	Note




C-5	Interface Works with Security Services Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Mechanical
	Security

	C-5.01
	Supply and installation of reed switches and all security field devices.  Provision of a dual pole reed switch in nominated "day room doors to exercise yards" for use by Mechanical and Security.  (For compliance with BCA Section J.)
	 
	X

	C-5.02
	Wiring from BMS to dual pole reed switches provided by Security and termination onto "Mechanical" allocated termination points.
	X
	 

	C-5.03
	Identification of BMS and Mechanical interfaces required.   
	X
	 

	C-5.04
	Provision of interface from BMS to SMS using mutually agreed protocols.  Provision of BMS alarms and notifications to the security system in the format required by the SMS.  
	X
	 

	C-5.05
	Anti vehicle Ramming System (AVRS) - Supply and install control and monitoring cabling to the gatehouse main control room and leave tails where directed by the security subcontractor for remote control and monitoring by security operator in the gatehouse main control room.
	X
	 

	C-5.06
	Existing plant – refer interface tables for interface with WWTP, generators and existing Fire plant.  Data points and special comms infrastructure required.
	 
	Note



C-6	Interface Works with ICT Services Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Mechanical
	ICT

	C-6.01
	Supply and installation of all active equipment installed in data racks except where specifically nominated otherwise.
	 
	X

	C-6.02
	Establish VLANs.
	 
	X

	C-6.03
	Nominate IP addresses.
	 
	X

	C-6.04
	Provide full infrastructure interconnectivity between nominated data outlets.
	 
	X

	C-6.05
	Existing plant – refer interface tables for interface with WWTP, generators and existing Fire plant.  Data points and special comms infrastructure required.
	 
	Note



C-7	Interface Works with Fire Detection/ Protection Services Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Mechanical
	Fire

	C-7.01
	Supply and installation of all fire services electronic plant and equipment, sprinkler systems, fire protection systems and devices;
	 
	X

	C-7.02
	Supply and installation of fire services field devices, data gathering panels and associated wiring;
	 
	X

	C-7.03
	Provision of wiring between the FIP/FFCP and the mechanical services switchboards;
	 
	X

	C-7.04
	In Gatehouse only for BMS interfacing with Main FIP - provision of wiring between the FIP and the mechanical services switchboard for provision of all required fire monitoring information to the BMS;
	X
	 

	C-7.05
	Termination within MSSB
	X
	 

	C-7.06
	Termination within FIP/ FFCP
	 
	X

	C-7.07
	Coordination with the Fire Services Subcontractor including cutting and sealing air tight holes in duct work for the installation of smoke detectors, gas detectors, sprinklers including access panels where required by the Fire Services subcontractor.
	X
	 

	C-7.08
	Identification of BMS interfaces, interface points and wiring to these interfaces.
	X
	 

	C-7.09
	Refer interface table for interface with existing fire plant.
	 
	Note

	 
	Gas Discharge - Gatehouse SER

	C-7.10
	Coordination of design within GH SER.
	X
	 

	C-7.11
	All gas devices including gas, pipework, over pressure relief.
	 
	X

	C-7.12
	Gas purge fan.
	X
	 

	C-7.13
	Pressure testing room for leakage to requirements of Fire subcontractor.  Allow up to 2 separate room tests.
	X
	 

	C-7.14
	Production of fire matrix plus lead trade for testing and commissioning fire matrix
	 
	X

	 
	Kitchen Hoods (K/L)

	C-7.15
	Coordination of all works required including duct access hatches, penetrations into ductwork and interface with kitchen hoods.  Refer to drawing ____
	X
	 

	C-7.16
	Supply and installation of sprinkler pipework and sprinkler heads integrated into hoods before delivery to site. Test and commission.   Sprinkler pipework to be installed by a qualified tradesperson for this work.
	X
	 

	C-7.17
	Responsibility for complete fire system including testing and commissioning.  Mechanical to be present for witnessing during this activity where it concerns the scope above.
	 
	X

	C-7.18
	Deluge discharge test in secure wing and DU cells.
	
	X

	C-7.19
	Protection of own Works in preparation for the deluge discharge test.
	X
	



C-8	Interface Works with Hydraulics Services Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Mechanical
	Hydraulics

	C-8.01
	Supply and installation of hydraulics control panels.
	 
	X

	C-8.02
	Supply and installation of cold water for mechanical services; to a point adjacent to mechanical plant (or where otherwise agreed).
	 
	X

	C-8.03
	Supply & installation of condensate drains for mechanical plant adjacent to mechanical plant (or where otherwise agreed or documented eg drain for KL evaporative coolers is in plant room).
	 
	X

	C-8.04
	Where mechanical plant is located within the ceiling space, a tundish (TD) will be provided 500mm AFFL within the wall or as noted on the Hydraulic drawings.
	 
	X

	C-8.05
	Condensate drain to be run from mechanical plant to tundish or drain.
	X
	 

	C-8.06
	Anti-vehicle Ramming System (AVRS) at gatehouse - Pit drainage connected to stormwater.
	 
	X

	C-8.07
	Identification of BMS interfaces, interface points and wiring to these interfaces.  Terminations within Hydraulic control panels.
	X
	 

	C-8.08
	Refer interface table for interface with existing Hydraulic plant to be upgraded.
	NOTE
	 

	 
	Sewer pump station

	C-8.09
	Connection to the sewer pump station is via the electrical conduit/ pit network.
	NOTE
	 



C-9	Interface Works with Kitchen and Laundry Subcontractor
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Mechanical
	Kitchen / Laundry

	 
	Set-up of Kitchen and Laundry and Café contract

	C-9.01
	Separate Kitchen/ Laundry specification and drawings produced by specialist Kitchen and Laundry Consultant (FSDA).   The café in the visits building also forms part of the FSDA scope.
	Note
	 

	C-9.02
	All interfaces with other trades to be documented by FSDA to match those within the main works contracts.
	Note
	 

	C-9.03
	All Services trades (Mechanical, Electrical, Fire, Hydraulics, Communications/ Security) to be the services trades for delivery of the main building and Kitchen/ Laundry associated fit-out plus interface services works.
	Note
	 

	C-9.04
	Coordination of kitchen/ Laundry fit-out BIM design etc to match that of the main works with Mechanical subcontractor to be lead.  FSDA and kitchen subcontractor to be involved.  FSDA to be involved in shop drawing review process.
	Note
	 

	C-9.05
	Supply and installation of kitchen/ Laundry equipment by Kitchen/ Laundry  subcontractor to be as nominated on the FSDA drawings and as below in this table. 
	 
	X

	C-9.06
	Supply and installation of cool rooms, freezer rooms and blast chillers as specified in FSDA drawings and specification.  Confirm set-down requirements for cold rooms and freezers.
	 
	X

	C-9.07
	Final test and commissioning of the kitchen and laundry equipment, fixtures and fittings supplied and installed by Kitchen/ Laundry subcontractor
	 
	X

	C-9.08
	Kitchen/ Laundry subcontractor to provide Form 16 for installation works they were responsible for.
	 
	X

	C-9.09
	Identification of BMS interfaces, interface points and wiring to these interfaces
	X
	 

	C-9.10
	Termination to all kitchen/ laundry interface points
	X
	 

	 
	Cooking hoods/ canopies (kitchen and café)

	C-9.11
	Supply and install hood above cooking equipment complete with lights and filters.
	X
	 

	C-9.12
	Exhaust ductwork connection to hood, ducted to above roof.  Complete with exhaust fan, fire rating as required etc.
	X
	 

	C-9.13
	Local control of hood exhaust.
	X
	 

	C-9.14
	Lights in hoods to be connected so lights are on whenever associated room light is on.
	X
	 

	C-9.15
	Review of shop drawings to include FSDA
	 
	X

	C-9.16
	Testing and commissioning of hoods including verification of air quantities. 
	X
	 




C-10	Interface Works with Waste Water Treatment Plant (WWTP)
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Mechanical
	WWTP

	C-10.01
	Set-up of WWTP contract is for a packaged Design and Construct but using the Mechanical subcontractor to supply and install plant as scheduled in the Mechanical scope.  The scope of the D&C works is to build a new WWTP then decommission the existing WWTP.
	Note
	 

	C-10.02
	Supply and install mechanical plant. 
	
	 X

	C-10.03
	Provision of power to an isolator adjacent each item of scheduled mechanical plant.  All on/ off (wireless) controls and framed openings.
	 
	X

	C-10.04
	Provision of BMS interfaces required (allow 5 low level interfaces).
	
	X 

	C-10.05
	Subcontract the incumbent adjacent facility BMS subcontractor to connect the new WWTP faults/ alarm status (to match that of the new BMS) to the adjacent facility BMS and thus to the adjacent facility Security Management System. Note: the existing WWTP has no connection to the adjacent facility BMS.
	 
	X

	C-10.06
	Provision of data points by communications trade (for connection into BMS) in a location to be agreed with the builder and WWTP subcontractor.  Provision of all associated communications infrastructure to connect  data outlets to the existing correctional facility and the project ESN by communications and ICT subcontractors.
	 
	Note

	C-10.07
	Provide and install wall mount interface point.  Connect to WWTP interface point terminals provided and integrate WWTP into the project BMS.
	X
	 




C-11	Interface Works with Existing Plant
	ITEM REF
	ITEM
	RESPONSIBILITY

	
	
	Mechanical
	Fire/ Hydraulic

	 
	Interface with Existing Fire pumps and Fire Tanks
	 
	 

	C-11.01
	The existing pumps and tank are connected to the adjacent facility Main  Fire Panel with faults and alarms connected to the adjacent facility Security Main Control Room.  All interfaces between existing fire plant and BMS are to be via the main FIP in the Gatehouse. 
	 
	X

	 
	Interface with Existing adjacent facility Fire Panel
	 
	 

	C-11.02
	The Fire subcontractor is responsible for all fire data linkages into the existing adjacent facility Fire system.  This data will be available from the new Gatehouse FIP.
	 
	X

	C-11.03
	Identification of BMS interfaces required (all low level).  
	X
	 

	 
	Interface with Existing and New Potable and also Non-Potable Water Pumps and tanks
	 
	 

	C-11.07
	The Hydraulic scope is to replace the existing Potable Water Pumps with new, bigger pumps.  The non-potable pumps will also be upgraded.  Both sets of pumps will serve both Prisons.  A new level sensor will also be added into the potable and non-potable water storage tanks with levels to be monitored by the associated pumps plus existing and new BMS.
	 
	X

	C-11.08
	Identification of BMS interfaces required (low level for pumps, analogue or digital for tank level).
	X
	 

	C-11.09
	Provision of BMS interface points in new potable and new non-potable water pump control panels.  There are to be 2 x termination connection points for each interface point - connection points for connection to adjacent facility BMS are to be independent of connection points to the project BMS points.
	 
	X

	C-11.10
	Subcontract the incumbent adjacent facility BMS subcontractor to connect the new potable and non-potable water pump faults/ alarm status (to match that of the existing plant) plus the new tank level information to the adjacent facility BMS and thus to the adjacent facility Security Management System.
	X
	 

	C-11.11
	Subcontract the incumbent adjacent facility BMS subcontractor to remove and make safe the existing potable and non-potable pump information from the adjacent facility BMS.  (To be replaced by plus supplemented by information from the new pump control panels.)
	X
	 

	C-11.12
	Provision of 2 x data points by communications trade (for connection into BMS) in locations to be agreed with the builder and the Hydraulic subcontractor but near the new pump control panels/ existing data outlets.  Provision of all associated communications infrastructure to connect data outlets (serving both sets of pumps) to the project ESN by communications and security subcontractors.
	 
	Note

	C-11.13
	Provide and install wall or post mount interface point(s).  Connect to both Hydraulics control panels and integrate into BMS.
	X
	 









































Appendix D     Principal’s Requirements For Completion Testing at the project
The attached flow chart has been extracted from Volume 4 of the Main Contract.
____


